2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Academic Libraries



Overview

Academic Libraries Overview

Welcome to the IPEDS Academic Libraries (AL) survey component. The purpose of the AL component of IPEDS is to collect information on library collections, library staff, library expenses, and library services for libraries in degree-granting postsecondary institutions.



Data Reporting Reminders

Report data to accurately reflect the time period corresponding with the IPEDS survey component, even if such reporting is seemingly inconsistent with prior-year reporting.

Report all data for fiscal year (FY) 2024. Fiscal Year 2024 is defined as the most recent 12-month period that ends before October 1, 2024, that corresponds to the institution’s fiscal year.



Changes to reporting:

No changes for the 2024-25 data collection period.



Coverage

Include data for the main or central academic library and all branch and independent libraries that were open all or part of the Fiscal Year 2024. Branch and independent libraries are defined as auxiliary library service outlets with quarters separate from the central library that houses the basic collection. The central library administers the branches. Libraries on branch campuses that have separate IPEDS unit identification numbers are reported as separate libraries.



For more information about the previous survey: Academic Libraries Survey



If you have questions about completing this survey, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 1/13 Screening Questions



Were your annual total library expenses (including staff salaries and wages) for Fiscal Year 2024:

Less than $100,000 Greater than or equal to $100,000



Is the library collection entirely electronic?

No Yes



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 2/13 Library Collections/Circulation, Interlibrary Loan Services, and Library Staff

Section I: For all degree-granting institutions with library expenses >0 and/or access to a library collection NOTE - This section of the survey collects data on selected types of material. It does not cover all materials. Report the total number of each category held at the END of Fiscal Year 2024.



Physical Digital/Electronic Total

Library Collections

Prior Year Prior Year

Amount Amount

Books

Databases

Media

Serials

Total



Library Circulation



Does your institution have Interlibrary Loan Services ?

No Yes

Interlibrary Loan Services Number Prior Year Amount

Total interlibrary loans and documents provided to other libraries

Total interlibrary loans and documents received



Does your institution have Library Staff?

No Yes

Library Staff Number of FTEs Prior Year Amount

Librarians

Other Professional Staff

All Other Paid Staff (Except Student Assistants)

Student Assistants

Total



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 3/13 Expenses





Section II: For degree-granting institutions with library expenses >= $100,000


Library expenses should be reported for the most recent 12-month period that corresponds to your institution's fiscal year that ends before October 1, 2024.



Prior Year Amount



Indicate the number of branch and independent libraries

(exclude the main or central library).



Expenses Amount

Total salaries and wages for the library staff



Are staff fringe benefits paid out of the library budget?

No

Yes Total Fringe benefits



Materials/services expenses

One-time purchases of books, serial back-files, and other materials

Ongoing commitments to subscriptions

All other materials/services costs

Total materials/services expenses



Operations and maintenance expenses

Preservation services

All other operations and maintenance expenses

Total operations and maintenance expenses



Total Expenses

Total Expenses (minus Fringe Benefits)



You may use the space below to provide context for the data you've reported above.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 4/13 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data. The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS. Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 5/13 Summary

Academic Libraries Component Summary

The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.



Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



Library Collections/Circulation Physical Digital/Electronic

Books

Databases

Media

Serials

Total



Library Circulation



Interlibrary Loan Services

Library Staff



Expenses Amount

Branch and independent libraries

Salaries and wages

Fringe benefits

Total materials/services expenses

Total operations and maintenance expenses

Total Expenses



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 6/13 Academic Libraries





Purpose of Component


Changes in Reporting for 2024-25

General Instructions

Reporting Period Covered

Context boxes

Coverage

Where to Get Help for Reporting

Where the Data Will Appear

Detailed Instructions

Section I: for degree granting institutions with library expenses >0 and/or degree granting institutions with access to a library collection

Section II: for degree granting institutions with library expenses >$100,000



Purpose of Component

The purpose of the Academic Libraries (AL) component of IPEDS is to collect information on library collections, expenses, and services for degree-granting postsecondary institutions.





Changes In Reporting

There are no changes to this survey component.





General Instructions

Please respond to each item in this survey. If the appropriate answer for an item is zero or none, or if a material is provided and counts are not measurable, use "0." If a material is not provided or not applicable, leave the item blank.





Reporting Period Covered

Report all data for fiscal year (FY) 2024. Fiscal year 2024 is defined as the most recent 12-month period that ends before October 1, 2024, that corresponds to the institution’s fiscal year.





Context Boxes

Context boxes are provided to allow institutions to provide more information regarding survey component items. Note that some context boxes are posted on

the College Navigator Website, which is the college search tool offered by NCES. NCES will review entries in these context boxes for applicability and

appropriateness before posting them on the College Navigator Website; institutions should check grammar and spelling of their entries.





Coverage

Include data for the main or central academic library and all branch and independent libraries that were open all or part of the Fiscal year 2024. Branch and independent libraries are defined as auxiliary library service outlets with quarters separate from the central library that houses the basic collection. The central library administers the branches. Libraries on branch campuses that have separate IPEDS unit identification numbers are reported as separate libraries.





Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org

Web Tutorials



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 7/13

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools, and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g., academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS Use the Data portal

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

College Affordability and Transparency Center Website

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS Data Explorer

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education





Detailed Instructions



Screening Questions:

Before entering any data, a screening question will need to be answered.

Were your annual total library expenses for Fiscal Year 2024:

Indicate whether the annual total library expenses in Fiscal Year 2024 were less than $100,000 or equal to or greater than $100,000. Fiscal Year 2024 is defined as the most recent 12-month period that ends before October 1, 2024, that corresponds to the institution's fiscal year. Expenses include funds expended by the library (regardless of when received) from its regular budget and from all other sources; e.g., research grants, special projects, gifts and endowments, and fees for services. All expenses should be reported in whole dollars. Exclude expenses for new buildings and building renovation. Include fringe benefits only IF paid from the library budget. Other library expenses that should be included are:

Salaries and wages (from the library budget and all other sources)

One time purchases of books, serial back-files, and other materials

Ongoing commitments to subscriptions

Other materials/service costs

Preservation services

All other operations and maintenance expenses

If annual total library expenses are less than $100,000, the institution will submit Section I of the AL component. If annual total library expenses are equal to or greater than $100,000, the institution will report Section I and additional expenses and interlibrary services information in Section II of the AL component. Is the library collection entirely electronic?

Select "Yes" if your library collection is comprised entirely of digital/electronic items. Select "No" if your library collection is comprised of both physical and digital/electronic items.



Section I: For all degree-granting institutions with library expenses > $0 and/or access to a library collection NOTE - This section of the survey collects data on selected types of material. It does not cover all materials. Report the total number of each category held at the END OF Fiscal Year 2024.

Count only those materials that are considered part of your collection. Collections comprise of documents held locally and remote resources for which permanent or temporary access rights have been acquired. Access rights may be acquired by the library itself, by a consortium and/or through external funding. Acquisition is to be understood as securing access rights and including it in the library catalog, other library databases or discovery systems. Interlibrary lending and document delivery are excluded from the collection. Include government documents that are cataloged and/or searchable through the library catalog or discovery system.

Library Collections/Circulation

Physical Books (include government documents) - Report physical book titles owned or leased by the library if individual titles are cataloged and/or searchable through the library catalog or discovery system. Exclude serials, microforms, maps, nonprint materials, and uncataloged items. Include music scores if searchable by title through the library catalog or discovery system. Include government documents that are accessible through the library's catalogs regardless of whether they are separately classified and/or shelved. "Cataloged" includes documents for which records are provided by the library or downloaded from other sources into the library catalog or discovery system.

Physical Media – Report the number of titles of media materials. Include microforms, audiovisual materials, cartographic, and graphic materials and three-dimensional artifacts and realia.

Physical Serials – Report the number of physical serial titles that are accessible through the library's catalog or discovery system. A serial is a publication in any medium issued in successive parts bearing numerical or chronological designations and intended to be continued indefinitely. This definition includes, in any physical format, periodicals, serial titles on microform, newspapers, and annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.); the journals, memoirs, proceedings, transactions, etc. of societies; and numbered monographic series. Report serial titles, not subscriptions. If possible, report the count of only those de-duplicated or otherwise unique serial titles searchable through the library's catalog or discovery system. If possible, do not include earlier title changes; however, do not worry about removing them if it is not possible/feasible.

Total Physical Collection – This line will automatically be calculated for you. Total Physical Circulation - Report the total number of times physical items are checked out from the general and reserve collections. Include only initial checkouts (circulation), not renewals. Exclude interlibrary loan lending and borrowing. Include transactions of books, media, and serials. Do not include transactions of equipment or computers. However, circulation of electronic reading devices (e.g., Kindles) can be included if the device is pre-loaded with e-



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 8/13 books. For example, if a customer checks out a Kindle that is pre-loaded with 20 e-books, then that transaction counts as 1 physical circulation, not 20 electronic/digital circulations.

Digital/Electronic Books, (include government documents) – Report e-book titles owned or leased by the library if individual titles are cataloged and/or searchable through the library catalog or discovery system. Examples of discovery systems can be found at

https://librarytechnology.org/discovery/. E-books are digital documents (including those digitized by the library), licensed or not, where searchable text is prevalent, and which can be seen in analogy to a printed book (monograph). Include e-book titles in aggregated sets in which the library selected the aggregator, even if not listed by each individual e-book title. Report the number at the administrative entity level; do not duplicate unit count for each branch. Include government documents, locally digitized electronic books and electronic theses and dissertations. Include digital music scores if searchable by title through the library catalog or discovery system. Include open access (OA) titles if the individual titles are searchable through the library's catalog or discovery system. Do not count e-book titles from HathiTrust, Center for Research Libraries, Internet Archive, and similar collections unless the library owns the digitized item and it is accessible under current copyright law. Do not include titles in Demand-Driven Acquisition (DDA) or Patron-Driven Acquisition (PDA) collections until they have been purchased by the library.

Digital/Electronic Databases -Report the total number of licensed digital/electronic databases in your collection if there is bibliographic or discovery access at the database level. Each database is counted individually even if access to several databases is supported through the same vendor interface. A database is a collection of electronically stored data or unit records (facts, bibliographic data, and texts) with a common user interface and software for the retrieval and manipulation of the data. The data or records are usually collected with a particular intent and relate to a defined topic. Do include databases that only allow access to abstracts. Do not include discovery systems in the count of databases. Do not include "individual releases" such as annual updates of content or the migration of the user interface to the next vendor-release (i.e., interface version 3.0 replaces version 2.0) as separate databases.

Digital/Electronic Media - Report titles of e-media materials owned or leased by the library, if the individual titles are cataloged and/or searchable through the library catalog or discovery system. E-media materials are media materials that are in digital format and are available for download or streaming. For example, titles from Films on Demand or Alexander Street Press should be reported. Include digital graphic materials and cartographic materials. Include e-media titles in aggregated sets in which the library selected the aggregator, even if not listed by each individual title. Report the number at the administrative entity level; do not duplicate unit count for each branch. Do not count image databases (ARTStor, AP Photo Archives) in this category; count as databases. Do not include titles in Demand-Driven Acquisition (DDA) or Patron-Driven Acquisition (PDA) collections until they have been purchased or leased by the library.

Digital/Electronic Serials - Report the number of e-serial titles that are accessible through the library’s catalog, discovery system or other technical means.

An e-serial is a periodical publication issued in successive parts bearing numerical or chronological designations, is intended to be continued indefinitely, and is published in digital form to be displayed on a computer screen in any medium. This definition includes digital and digitized periodicals, newspapers, and annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.); the journals, memoirs, proceedings, transactions, etc. of societies; and numbered monographic series. If possible,

report the count of only those de-duplicated or otherwise unique e-serial titles.

include ceased electronic serial titles.

do not count earlier title changes; however, do not worry about removing them if it is not possible/feasible. A source for counting e-serials may be a library- or vendor-developed A-Z title list of e-journals.

Include open access (OA) titles if the individual titles are searchable through the library's catalog or discovery system, except do not count e-serial titles from HathiTrust Center for Research Libraries, Internet Archive, and similar collections unless the library owns the digitized item and it is accessible under current copyright law.

Total Digital/Electronic Collection - This line will automatically be calculated for you. Total Digital/Electronic Circulation or Usage – Report usage of digital/electronic titles whether viewed, downloaded, or streamed. Do not include institutional repository documents.

Include usage for e-books and e-media titles only, even if the title was purchased as part of a database. Do not include usage of titles in Demand-Driven Acquisition (DDA) or Patron-Driven Acquisition (PDA) collections until they have been purchased or leased by the library. Do not include transactions of VHS, CDs, or DVDs, as the transactions of these materials are reported under "physical circulation. Most vendors will provide usage statistics in COUNTER reports. As of January 2019, Release 5 became the current Code of Practice (see Project COUNTER

Release 5 Code of Practice [https://www.projectcounter.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Release_5_for_Providers_20191030.pdf]). Relevant COUNTER Release 5 reports for e-books are: TR_B1: Book Requests (Excluding OA_Gold). As to the COUNTER 5 metric type for e-books, report “unique title requests.” For e-media, use IR_M1: Multimedia Item Requests, report metric type for “total_item_requests” is the most relevant. Report usage of e-serial titles whether viewed, downloaded, or streamed. Include usage for e-serial titles only, even if the title was purchased as part of a database. Viewing a document is defined as having the full text of a digital document or electronic resource downloaded. [NISO Z39.7-2013, section 7.7] If available, include the count for open access e-journal usage if the title is accessible through the library’s catalog or discovery system. Libraries may need to ask vendors for e-serial usage reports; reports may not be delivered automatically or in easily- understood formats by the vendor to the library. Most vendors will provide usage statistics in COUNTER Release 5 reports. The most relevant COUNTER Release 5 report for e-serial usage is TR_J1: Journal Requests (Excluding OA_Gold). For the metric type, report “unique item requests.” Applicable COUNTER Release 5 definitions:

Article: “An item of original written work published in a journal, other serial publication, or in a book.” Database: “A collection of electronically stored data or unit records (facts, bibliographic data, texts) with a common user interface and software for the retrieval and manipulation of data (NISO)”

Full-Text Article: "The complete text, including all references, figures and tables, of an article, plus links to any supplementary material published with it.”

Open access: “Online research outputs that are free of all restrictions on access (e.g. access tolls) and free of many restrictions on use (e.g. certain copyright and license restrictions). Open access can be applied to all forms of published research output, including peer-reviewed and non-peer-reviewed academic journal articles, conference papers, theses, book chapters, and monographs.

In cases where vendors do not provide COUNTER reports, libraries may report using other means for monitoring digital/ electronic circulation/usage (downloads, session views, transaction logs, etc.), or report zero. An electronic resource management system (ERMS) and/or a usage consolidation service may be helpful for collecting e-serial usage statistics. Do not include usage of titles in Demand-Driven Acquisition (DDA) or Patron-Driven Acquisition (PDA) collections until they have been purchased or leased by the library.

Interlibrary Loan Services

Does your institution have Interlibrary Loan Services: Indicate whether your institution has interlibrary loan services. Total interlibrary loans and documents provided to other libraries – Report the number of filled requests for material provided to other libraries. Include all returnable and non-returnable interlibrary loans and documents. Include direct borrowing between consortium members. Do not include transactions between the main or central library and branches, or transactions between branches. Total interlibrary loans and documents received – Report the number of filled requests for material received from other libraries. Include all returnable and non-returnable interlibrary loans and documents received from commercial services. Documents delivered from commercial services are all transactions for which the library pays even if library staff is not involved in the transaction. This includes documents received by regular or express mail, by fax, or in electronic form. Include direct borrowing between consortium members. Exclude transactions between the main or central library and branches and transactions between branches.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 9/13 Notes for Library Consortia

A library consortium is any local, statewide, regional, or interstate cooperative association of libraries that provides for the systematic and effective coordination of the resources of schools, public, academic, and special libraries and information centers, for improving services to the clientele of such libraries. (U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Sect. 54.500)

The purpose of library consortia can include:

Cost reduction through group purchasing

Professional development for library staff

Resource sharing (content, technology, expertise, and funding)

Networking, information sharing, mass communication

Building shared integrated library management and cataloging systems.

A library consortium can be multitype, almost any type of library can participate (e.g., public libraries). For IPEDS purposes, academic libraries that share an administrative unit are NOT considered a consortium (see definition of branch and independent libraries). There are two cases of consortium: one in which members share ALL library resources or one in which they share PARTIAL resources. Refer below for specific instructions in each case.

Consortium Members Sharing ALL Resources

In the case of consortia where individual library members share ALL the same library resources and library budget, a parent/child relationship for reporting Academic Libraries data may be established if certain criteria are met. Parent/child relationships can be established for institutions if: (1) the child institution is in the same institutional control as the parent, and (2) the child institution is not set up to report its own academic libraries expenses or collections data. Once a parent/child relationship has been established, the parent institution will report all data for the child institution. Shared resources are to be reported at the system level. For example, if 20,000 e-book titles were purchased by two institutions in a parent/child relationship to be shared, the parent institution will report 20,000 e-book titles and not 40,000 e-book titles. Institutions wishing to establish a parent/child relationship must contact the Help Desk. See

the resource guide for more details on parent/child reporting.

Consortium Members Sharing PARTIAL Resources

In the case where individual library members of the consortia share PARTIAL resources and/or are set up to report their own academic library expenses or collections data, they must do so for their individual institution. Please note the instructions below.

Reporting digital/electronic collection

If your library is part of a consortium of independent libraries and shares a common e-service (e.g., Overdrive), then count the number of digital/electronic usage for your library only. For example, if your library pays a set annual fee, as part of a consortium, for access rights to 1200 e-books that are shared across all members of the consortium, then your library should count the 1200 titles as part of its e-book collection.

Reporting digital/electronic circulation or usage

If your library is part of a consortium of independent libraries and shares a common e-service (e.g., Overdrive), then count the number of digital/electronic usage for your library's e-books and e-media collection only. If the usage count for only your institution is not available from the e-service provider, you may allocate the total usage based on characteristics of the institutions in the consortia (e.g., based on percentage Full Time Equivalent students, based on percentage of consortial fees). Do not include counts from other members of the consortium.

Reporting ongoing expenses for electronic/digital materials or database purchased through a set annual consortium fee Report them under 'All other operations and maintenance expenses'. Do not include under 'Ongoing commitments to subscriptions.'

Library Staff

Does your institution have Library Staff: Indicate whether your institution has library staff. Report FTEs supported from the library budget. However, if known, if significant, and if specifically for library business, include FTEs funded from sources outside of the library budget. For example, for staffing counts, you may include full counts for federal work-study students working for the library, but do not include counts for maintenance and custodial staff. If there are significant counts included or excluded because of how budgeting/expenses are handled at your institution, indicate in a note whether your reporting here includes or excludes them. Computing FTEs for part-time staff: To compute FTEs for part-time employees and student assistants, take the total number of hours worked per week by part-time employees in each category as of November 1 of the fiscal year and divide it by the number of hours considered by the reporting library to be a full-time work week (e.g., 60 hours per week of part- time work divided by 40 hours per full-time week equals 1.50 FTE). Data should be reported to two decimal places.

Report Librarians by number of FTEs: “Librarians” are professional staff as defined by NISO: Staff members doing work that requires professional education in the theoretical and scientific aspects of librarianship, archives, or information studies. Report Other professional staff by number of FTEs: Other professional staff are staff performing professional level tasks who, though not librarians, have equivalent education and training in related fields (e.g., computer sciences, business administration, education). Report All other paid staff (except student assistants) by number of FTEs: Library staff members without formal qualification (or equivalent combination of training and experience) in librarianship, archives, information studies or other relevant specialization, not included elsewhere. Report Student assistants by number of FTEs: Student assistants (graduate and undergraduate), employed on an hourly basis whose wages are paid from funds from the library budget or from an account(s) within the institution, including the Federal Work-Study Program.





Section II: For degree-granting institutions with library expenses >= $100,000 Level of library expenses that determines applicability of Section II is based on the institution's response to the screening question.

Branch and Independent Libraries

Branch and independent libraries - Report the number of branch and independent libraries at your institution that were open all or part of fiscal year 2024. EXCLUDE THE MAIN OR CENTRAL LIBRARY. Branch and independent libraries are defined as auxiliary library service outlets with quarters separate from the central library of an institution, which have a basic collection of books and other materials, a regular staffing level, and an established schedule. Include virtual/digital-based branch and independent libraries.

Branch and independent libraries are administered either by the central library, or as in the case of some libraries (such as law, medical, etc.), through the administrative structure of the other units within the university. Departmental study/reading rooms are not included. Please note that data for libraries on branch campuses (i.e., located in another community) are included if those campuses are registered under the same NCES Unit ID number as the main campus.

NOTE- For schools in parent/child relationships, do not report the child institutions as branch libraries. However, if the child institutions have branches, the parent institution should report the combined branch libraries for itself and child institutions.

Expenses

NOTE – Expenses should be reported for the most recent 12-month period that corresponds to your institution's fiscal year that ends before October 1, 2024. Report funds expended by the library (regardless of when received) from its regular budget and from all other sources; e.g., research grants, special projects, gifts and endowments, and fees for services. If items in this section are not paid from the library budget but can be easily identified in other parts of the institution's budget, report them here. The exception is fringe benefits -- report fringe benefits only IF paid from the library budget. All expenses



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 10/13 should be reported in whole dollars in the most appropriate category to provide an unduplicated count of expenses. Exclude expenses for new buildings and building renovation. Include any library-related expenses that are covered by Higher Education Emergency Relief Act (HEERF) grants funded under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA), and American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act in the appropriate expense sections. Total salaries and wages – Report salaries and wages before deductions for all full-time and part-time library staff, including student assistant wage and Federal Work-Study students' wage, from the library budget or all other institutional sources that are identifiable. Staff fringe benefits– If benefits are paid from the library budget, select ‘yes’ and report the amount. If benefits are not paid from the library budget, select ‘no’ and report ‘0’ for the amount.

Total amount of fringe benefits (if paid by library budget) – If fringe benefits are paid by the library budget, report all cash contributions in the form of supplementary or deferred compensation other than salary. Do not include the employee's contribution. Employee fringe benefits include retirement plans, social security taxes, medical/dental plans, unemployment compensation plans, group life insurance plans, worker's compensation plans, and other benefits in-kind with cash options. Exclude employee fringe benefits if not paid from the library budget.

Materials/Service Cost

One-time purchases of books, serial back-files, and other materials - Provide the cost of one-time purchases of books, serial back-files, and other materials. Report expenses for published materials in all formats including archives and special collections. Include one-time acquisitions of access rights for digital/electronic materials held locally and for remote materials for which permanent access rights have been acquired. Include expenses for database licenses only if they are not a subscription or part of an annual consortium fee. Do not include expenses for computer software used to support library operations or to link external networks, including the Internet. This is reported under other operations and maintenance expenses. Ongoing commitments to subscriptions - Report expenses for ongoing commitments in all formats, including duplicates, for all outlets. This includes serials and any other items committed to annually, as well as annual electronic platform or access fees. Serials are publications issued in successive parts, usually at regular intervals, and, as a rule, intended to be continued indefinitely. Print-based serial subscriptions include periodicals, newspapers, annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.), memoirs, proceedings, and transactions of societies. Include the costs of electronic serials bought in aggregations and serial packages. Include abstracting and indexing services and any database that requires an annual subscription fee. Do not include subscription fees if they are part of an annual consortium fee. Government documents received serially are included if they are accessible through the library's catalog or discovery system.

Other materials/service cost – Report additional materials/service costs that have not already been reported in this section. Other materials/service costs may include:

Document delivery/interlibrary loan services. Include fees paid for photocopies, costs of facsimile transmissions, royalties and access fees paid to provide document delivery or interlibrary loan. Include the interlibrary loan fees paid to bibliographic utilities if the interlibrary loan costs paid can be separated out from the expenses paid to the bibliographic utility. Do not count expenses related to transactions between the main or central library and branches, transactions between branches, or expenses for an on-campus delivery. Include costs associated with pay-per-view journal article transactions. Include fees expended for short-term loans as part of a Patron-Driven Acquisition (PDA) or Demand-Driven Acquisition (DDA) program. Other expenses for information resources. Include copyright fees and fees for database searches, e.g., (DIALOG, Lexis-Nexis).

Total materials/services cost calculated – This line will automatically be calculated for you.

Operations and Maintenance Expenses

Preservation services - Report expenses associated with maintaining library and archival materials for use either in their original physical form or in some other usable way. This includes but is not limited to binding and rebinding, materials conservation, de-acidification, lamination, and restoration. Also, include preservation-related contracts for services (e.g., digitization). Do not include staff salaries and wages. All other operations and maintenance expenses - Report any other maintenance expenses that have not already been reported in this section. Include:

Computer hardware and software expenses. Report expenses from the library budget for computer hardware and software used to support library operations, whether purchased or leased, local or remote. Include the expenses for equipment used to run information service products when that expense can be separated from the price of the product.

National, regional, and local bibliographic utilities, networks and consortia.

If interlibrary loan fees paid to bibliographic utilities cannot be separated out, include the interlibrary loan costs here with the library’s expenses of the bibliographic utilities.

All other operating expenses. Report all other expenses from the library budget not already reported. Exclude expenses for new buildings and building renovations. Include all expenses for furniture and equipment. Include any related maintenance costs.

Total operations and maintenance expenses - This line will automatically be calculated for you. Total Expenses – This amount will be calculated for you. It is the sum of salaries and wages, fringe benefits, total materials/services, and total operations and maintenance.

Total Expenses (minus Fringe Benefits) – This amount will be calculated for you. It is total expenses minus fringe benefits. If fringe benefits were not paid out of the library budget, this line should be equal to Total Expenses.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 11/13 Glossary



Term Definition

An entity in a postsecondary institution that provides an organized collection of printed or other materials, or a combination thereof; a staff trained to provide and interpret such materials as required to meet the informational, cultural, recreational, or

Academic Library educational needs of the clientele; an established schedule in which services of the staff are available to the clientele; an

established schedule in which services of the staff are available to the clientele; and the physical facilities necessary to support such a collection, staff, and schedule. This definition includes libraries that are part of learning resource centers.

Access rights may be acquired by the library itself, by a consortium and/or through external funding. Acquisition is to be

Access rights understood as deliberately selecting a document, securing access rights and including it in the OPAC (online public access

catalog) or other databases of the library. Interlibrary lending and document delivery are excluded.

Materials that are displayed by visual projection or magnification, or through sound reproduction, or both, including sound recordings, motion pictures and video recordings, and graphic materials. Also included in this category are special visual

Audiovisual Materials materials such as three-dimensional artifacts and realia, and web-based audiovisual resources. This includes audio documents

such as records, tapes, cassettes, audio compact discs, files of digital audio recordings; visual documents such as slides, transparencies, and combined audiovisual documents such as motion pictures, video recordings, etc. Microforms are excluded.

Bibliographic utilities,

Services provided by national, regional, and local bibliographic utilities networks, and consortia.

networks and consortia



Books Books are non-serial printed publications, including music, that have hard or soft covers or are in loose-leaf format.

Auxiliary library service outlets with quarters separate from the central library that houses the basic collection. The central

Branch and independent

library administers the branches. Libraries on branch campuses that have separate NCES identification numbers are reported as

libraries

separate libraries.

Cartographic Material Materials representing in whole or in part the earth or any celestial body at any scale (e.g., maps and charts)

These include expenses from the library budget for computer hardware and software used to support library operations, whether

Computer hardware and

purchased or leased, mainframe or microcomputer. Expenses for maintenance and the expense to run information services

software operating expenses

when it cannot be separated from the price of the product are also included in this category.

Collection of electronically stored data or unit records (facts, bibliographic data, and texts) with a common user interface and software for the retrieval and manipulation of the data. The data or records are usually collected with a particular intent and

Database

relate to a defined topic. Each database is counted individually even if access to several databases is supported through the same vendor interface.

A discovery system product consists of an interface directed toward the users of a library to find materials in its collections and subsequently to gain access to items of interest through the appropriate mechanisms. Discovery systems tend to be independent from the specific applications that libraries implement to manage resources, such as integrated library systems, library services platforms, repository platforms, or electronic resource management systems. In most cases they provide access

Discovery system

to multiple types of materials, independently of the management platform involved. Discovery systems provide an interface with search and retrieval capabilities, often with features such as relevancy-based ordering of search results, facets presented that can be selected to narrow results according to specific categories, contributors, or date ranges, and tools to identify related

materials or to refine search queries. Examples of discovery systems can be found at http://librarytechnology.org/discovery/.

E-books are digital documents (including those digitized by the library), licensed or not, where searchable text is prevalent, and

E-books which can be seen in analogy to a printed book (monograph). E-books are loaned to users on portable devices (e-book readers)

or by transmitting the contents to the user's personal computer for a limited time.

E-media materials are media materials that are in digital format and are available for download or streaming. Include digital

E-media

graphic materials.

An e-serial is a publication issued in successive parts bearing numerical or chronological designations, is intended to be continued indefinitely, and is published in digital form to be displayed on a computer screen in any medium. This definition

E-serial

includes digital and digitized periodicals, newspapers, and annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.); the journals, memoirs, proceedings, transactions, etc. of societies; and numbered monographic series.

Cash contributions in the form of supplementary or deferred compensation other than salary. Excludes the employee's contribution. Employee fringe benefits include retirement plans, social security taxes, medical/dental plans, guaranteed disability

Fringe benefits

income protection plans, tuition plans, housing plans, unemployment compensation plans, group life insurance plans, worker's compensation plans, pension, and other benefits in-kind with cash options.

Opaque (e.g., two-dimensional) art originals and reproductions, charts, photographs or materials intended to be projected or

Graphic materials viewed without sound, e.g., filmstrips, transparencies, photographs, posters, pictures, radiographs, slides, and collections of

such materials. [NISO Z39.7-2013, section 4.6]

The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), conducted by the NCES, began in 1986 and involves annual

institution-level data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation Agreement with the Office of

Integrated Postsecondary Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report

Education Data System data using a web-based data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional

(IPEDS) Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Admissions (ADM); Student Financial Aid (SFA); Human

Resources (HR) composed of Employees by Assigned Position, Fall Staff, and Salaries; Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates

(GR); Outcome Measures (OM); Finance (F); and Academic Libraries (AL).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 12/13

Interlibrary loan is the process by which a library requests material from, or supplies material to, another library" where "'material'

Interlibrary loan services includes books, audiovisual materials, and other returnable items as well as copies of journal articles, book chapters, excerpts,

and other non-returnable items.

Comprise of documents held locally and remote resources for which permanent or temporary access rights have been acquired.

Library collections Access rights may be acquired by the library itself, by a consortium and/or through external funding. Acquisition is to be

understood as securing access rights and including it in the library catalog, other library databases or discovery systems.

A library consortium is any local, statewide, regional, or interstate cooperative association of libraries that provides for the

Library Consortia systematic and effective coordination of the resources of schools, public, academic, and special libraries and information

centers, for improving services to the clientele of such libraries. (U.S. Code of Federal Regulations, Sect. 54.500)

Funds expended by the library (regardless of when received) from its regular budget and from all other sources; e.g., research

Library expenses

grants, special projects, gifts and endowments, and fees for services.

Titles of all library materials that include audio visual materials, cartographic materials, graphic materials, and three-dimensional

Media materials

artefacts and realia.

Microforms are photographic reproduction of textual, tabular, or graphic material reduced in size so that they can be used only

Microform with magnification. Examples of microforms are roll microfilm, aperture cards, microfiche, ultrafiche, and reproductions on

opaque material.

Materials that the library does not expect to have returned. Examples of non-returnables include photocopies or facsimiles,

Non-Returnables fiche-to-fiche copies, print copies from microfilm, electronic full-text documents, and gratis print copies of unpublished reports

and/or departmental working papers.

Ongoing commitments in all formats, including duplicates, for all outlets. This includes serials and any other items committed to annually, as well as annual e-platform or access fees. Serials are publications issued in successive parts, usually at regular intervals, and, as a rule, intended to be continued indefinitely. Print-based serial subscriptions include periodicals, newspapers,

Ongoing commitments to

annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.), memoirs, proceedings, and transactions of societies. Include the costs of electronic serials

subscriptions

bought in aggregations and serial packages. Include abstracting and indexing services and any database that requires an annual subscription fee. Do not include subscription fees if they are part of an annual consortium fee. Government documents received serially are included if they are accessible through the library's catalog.

Activities associated with maintain library and archival materials for use in their original form or some other usable way.

Preservation

Examples include rebinding, de-acidification, restoration, lamination, materials conservation and digitization.

Materials that the library expects to have returned. Examples of returnables include books, dissertations and theses, microfilm

Returnables

reels, sound recordings, and audiovisual material.

Amounts paid as compensation for services to all employees - faculty, staff, part-time, full-time, regular employees, and student employees. This includes regular or periodic payment to a person for the regular or periodic performance of work or a service

Salaries and wages

and payment to a person for more sporadic performance of work or a service (overtime, extra compensation, summer compensation, bonuses, sick or annual leave, etc.).

A serial is a publication in any medium issued in successive parts bearing numerical or chronological designations and intended

Serial to be continued indefinitely. This definition includes periodicals, newspapers, and annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.); the journals,

memoirs, proceedings, transactions, etc. of societies; and numbered monographic series.

Serial back-files Previous issues of serial titles that libraries buy back (such as back issues of magazines).

Publications issued in successive parts, usually at regular intervals, and, as a rule, intended to be continued indefinitely. Serial

Serial subscriptions subscriptions include periodicals, newspapers, annuals (reports, yearbooks, etc.), memoirs, proceedings, and transactions of

societies.

Serial titles Titles of serials collected.

Use the ANSI/NISO Z39.7-2004 definition for title as follows: The designation of a separate bibliographic whole, whether issued in one or several parts. A book or serial title may be distinguished from other such titles by its unique International Standard

Title Book Number (ISBN) or International Standard Serial Number (ISSN). This definition applies equally to print, electronic,

audiovisual, and other library materials. For unpublished works, the term is used to designate a manuscript collection or an archival record series. Two subscriptions to Science magazine, for example, are counted as one title.

An institution that has a written agreement with the Secretary of Education that allows the institution to participate in any of the Title IV federal student financial assistance programs (other than the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP,

Title IV institution

formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG and the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership or NEISP programs).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=15&instructionid=30103&formid=103 13/13





