

Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire









General Information Four-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



All departments in this survey are in universities and colleges that offer at least a bachelor’s degree. They may or may not offer a major in mathematics. Many of the departments in our random sample also offer higher degrees in mathematical sciences.



We have classified your department as belonging to a university or four-year college. If this is not correct, please contact Ellen Kirkman, Survey Director, at 336-758-5351 or at Kirkman@wfu.edu.



Please report on undergraduate programs in the broadly defined mathematical sciences (including applied mathematics, statistics, operations research, and computer science) that are under the direction of your department. Do not include data for other departments or for branches or campuses of your institution that are budgetarily separate from your own. Also, if your department is broader than just mathematics (e.g., Division of Mathematics and Sciences), please report only on the mathematics courses (as broadly defined here).



This survey may be completed either online or using a hard-copy questionnaire. We recommend using the online system because it will do some of the work for you; e.g., it will automatically skip those questions that are not applicable (based on the response you give), gray out portions of questions that do not apply, remind you of previous responses, and provide definitions when you let your cursor hover over certain highlighted words.



If you have any questions while filling out this survey form, please call the Survey Director, Ellen Kirkman, at 336-758-5351 or contact her by e-mail at Kirkman@wfu.edu. For help with the online questionnaire, call Westat at 855-770-0558 or send an email to cbms2021@westat.com.



Please complete the questionnaire by October 29, 2021 online or by mailing a hard copy to:



CBMS Survey

Westat

1600 Research Boulevard, RB 3103 Rockville,

MD 20850-3129

Please retain a copy of your responses to this questionnaire in case questions arise.



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 229



A. General Information Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



A1. Name of your institution: _______________________________________________________



A2. Name of your department: _____________________________________________________



A3. We have classified your department as being part of a university or four-year college. Do you

agree?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to A4 below.



No ................... If No, please call Ellen Kirkman, Survey Director,

at 336-758-5351



A4. If your college or university does not recognize tenure, check this box.



A5. Contact person in your department:



A6. Contact person's e-mail address:



A7. Contact person's phone number

( )

including area code:



A8. Contact person’s mailing address:



a. Street ..............................



b. Street2.............................



c. City ..................................



d. State ..................................................................................



e. Zip code ............................................................................



1



230 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



B. Dual-Enrollment Courses Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Definition: We use the term dual (or concurrent) enrollment courses to refer to courses taught in a high school by high school teachers, for which high school students may obtain high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit through your institution.



B1. Does your department participate in any dual enrollment programs of this type?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to B2.



No ................... If No, go to B3.



B2. Please complete the following table giving the number of students enrolled in your dual

enrollment program (as defined above) for the previous term (spring 2021) and the current fall term of 2021. (Do not include these enrollments in subsequent sections)



Total Dual Enrollments

Last Term = This Term =

Course Spring 2021 Fall 2021

a. College Algebra

b. Precalculus

c. Calculus I

d. Statistics

e. Other



B3. Does your department assign any of its own full-time or part-time faculty to teach courses in a

high school for which high school students may receive both high school and college credit (through your institution)?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to B4.



No ................... If No, go to C1.



B4. In fall 2021, how many students are enrolled in the courses taught in a high school by your full-

time or part-time faculty and through which high school students may receive both high school and college credit (through your institution)? (Include these enrollments in subsequent sections)



Number of students.............................



2



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 231



C. Distance/Remote Learning Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Definition: Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g., courses in which half or more of the course is taught online either synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies). Include only distance/remote learning courses offered in normal practice, not courses that became distance/remote due to the COVID-19 pandemic.



C1. Overall, how have attitudes towards online learning changed as a result of the COVID-19

experience?



More Less

favorable No change favorable



a. Faculty interest in online teaching



b. Faculty use of online tools



c. Student interest in online teaching



d. Student use of online tools



3



232 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



C2. Many colleges have conducted online instruction as a way of addressing the COVID-19

pandemic, offering online instruction either as an alternative to face-to-face instruction or as a supplement to face-to-face instruction. How is that instruction coordinated with what has normally been called distance education? Please indicate which of the following applies to your department for each listed time period, using the following definitions.



• On-campus (face-to-face) learners—students who would be expected to attend most

classes in person.

• Remote learners—students who would be expected to attend most classes remotely.



Policy

During

Prior to pandemic

pandemic (prior (spring 2020-to spring 2020) summer 2021) Fall 2021

Yes No Yes No Yes No



a. We offer some course sections only to on-

campus (face-to-face) learners; remote

learners might be offered the same course,

but the students would not normally be in the

same section.

b. We offer some course sections only to remote

learners; on-campus (face-to-face) learners

might be offered the same course, but the

students would not normally be in the same

section.

c. We offer some “hybrid” courses to on-campus

(face-to-face) learners and remote learners in

the same section.



C3. Has your department taught any distance/remote learning course (other than courses moved

online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic) within the calendar years 2018-2021?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to C4.



No ................... If No, skip to section D.



4



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 233



C4. Which best characterizes the format/structure of the majority of your distance/remote learning

courses (not including courses moved online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic)? (Choose one response.)



Sections are taught only online, and only asynchronously. ............................................



Sections are taught only online, with an opportunity to meet synchronously online .......

Sections use a mixture of online and face-to-face sessions ...........................................



Other .............................................................................................................................



C5. In most of your distance/remote learning courses, how are the majority of the tests administered

(not including courses moved online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic? (Choose one response.)



Online and not monitored ..............................................................................................



Online, but using some kind of monitoring technology ...................................................

At a monitored testing site .............................................................................................



Combination of monitoring methods ..............................................................................



C6. Rate the following challenges that your department faces when creating and/or offering

distance/remote learning mathematics courses. (Please check one box in each line.)



Challenge Somewhat Very

Not a

of a significant

challenge

challenge challenge



a. Designing appropriate assessments of student learning.



b. Maintaining academic integrity on assessments.



c. Grade inflation.

d. Building/maintaining community among faculty and

students.



e. Maintaining academic quality instruction.



f. Engaging students online.



g. Replicating active learning in a virtual environment.

h. Availability of equipment and technical support for

faculty/students.



5



234 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



D. Faculty Profile (Fall 2021) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Please indicate whether the following types of faculty are actively teaching one or more courses in fall 2021.



Definitions



• Full-time faculty. Faculty who are full-time employees in the institution and more than

halftime in the department. For example, if a tenured physics professor with a joint appointment in your department teaches a total of two courses in fall 2021, with exactly one being in your department (i.e., mathematics is 50% of the fall teaching assignment), then that person would be counted as part-time in your department.



Teach in Fall 2021

Faculty Type

Yes No

D1. Full-time faculty who are more than halftime in your department



a. Tenured or tenure-eligible, or permanent (if your institution does

not recognize tenure) faculty ...........................................................

b. Other full-time faculty (e.g., permanent faculty only if your

institution also has tenured or tenure-eligible faculty, faculty with

renewable positions such as teaching professionals,

postdoctoral faculty, and visiting faculty) .........................................



D2. Part-time faculty (those who are halftime or less in your department) ....



D3. Graduate teaching assistant(s) who teach courses independently

(not counting the teaching of recitation sessions) .................................



6



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 235



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or

developmental/remedial programs separate from your mathematics program or department.

• Include courses taught through distance/remote education. • Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses. This information

will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row.



Catalog code(s) used for

Taught in fall courses offered FALL 2021 (not

2021 spring 2022 or previous

Name of Course (or equivalent)

academic year) (use comma to

separate codes)

(a) (e)

MATHEMATICS



Enter X where

PRECOLLEGE LEVEL

applicable

E1. Precollege level (e.g., arithmetic, pre-algebra,

elementary algebra, intermediate algebra)

INTRODUCTORY LEVEL, INCLUDING PRE-CALCULUS



E2. Mathematics for Liberal Arts

E3. Finite Mathematics

E4. Business Mathematics (non-Calculus)

E5. Mathematics for pre-service K-8 School Teachers (all

courses)

E6. College Algebra (not included in the Precollege E1

above)

E7. Trigonometry

E8. College Algebra & Trigonometry (combined)

E9. Pre-Calculus

E10. Introduction to Mathematical Modeling

E11. Quantitative Literacy/Reasoning

E12. All other introductory-level non-Calculus courses

1Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the

instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which the majority of the course is taught online either synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).



7



236 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or

developmental/remedial programs separate from your mathematics program or department.

• Include courses taught through distance/remote education. • Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses. This information

will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row. • Calculus and Introductory Statistics classes. You will be asked to list separately classes

taught in a large lecture format (with recitation/problem/laboratory sections) and, sections that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time (and are not divided into recitation sections). Please treat any large class that is sometimes broken up into smaller units as a “lecture/recitation” class (even if there is no lecture); if neither the lecture/recitation or individual class format seems an appropriate description of the enrollment, enter the enrollment under “other.”



Catalog code(s) used for

Taught in fall courses offered FALL 2021 (not

2021 spring 2022 or previous

Name of Course (or equivalent)

academic year) (use comma to

separate codes)1

(a) (e)

M 2 AINSTREAM CALCULUS I

E13-1. Lecture with separately scheduled

recitation/problem/laboratory sessions

E13-2. Individual sections, not in E13-1, that meet as a class

with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time

E13-3. Other sections, not listed above



M 2 AINSTREAM CALCULUS II

E14-1. Lecture with separately scheduled recitation/

problem/laboratory sessions

E14-2. Sections not in E14-1, that meet as a class with an

instructor at a regularly scheduled time

E14-3. Other sections not listed above



M 2 AINSTREAM CALCULUS III (and IV, etc.)

E15-1. Lecture with separately scheduled

recitation/problem/laboratory sessions

E15-2. Individual sections not in E15-1 that meet as a class

with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time



8



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 237



E15-3. Other sections not listed above

1 For E-13 though E-16, enter course identifiers that are sufficiently distinct to separate courses with recitation sessions,

courses that meet as a class, and other sections.

2 A calculus course is mainstream if it leads to the usual upper division mathematical sciences courses.



9



238 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Taught in fall Catalog code(s) used for

2021 courses offered FALL 2021 (not

spring 2022 or previous

Name of Course (or equivalent)

academic year) (use comma to

separate codes)1

(a) (e)

NON- 2 MAINSTREAMCALCULUS

E16-1. Lecture with separately scheduled recitation/

problem/laboratory sessions6

E16-2. Individual sections not in E16-1 that meet as a class

with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time

E16-3. Other sections not listed above

E17. Non-mainstream5 Calculus II, III, etc.



OTHER CALCULUS LEVEL COURSES

E18. Differential Equations and Linear Algebra (combined)

E19. Differential Equations

E20. Linear Algebra or Matrix Theory

E21. Discrete Mathematics (not Discrete Structures, which

is E30)

E22. Freshman seminar (Only count courses that are not

included elsewhere)

E23. Other calculus-level courses



10



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 239



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021, will be taught in Spring 2022, or were taught at any time in 2020-21? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or

developmental/remedial programs separate from your mathematics program or department.

• Include courses taught through distance/remote education. • Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses. This information

will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row.



Catalog

code(s) used

for courses

offered FALL

2021 (not

spring 2022 or

Name of Course (or equivalent) previous

Taught in Will be Taught Offer as academic

fall 2021 taught in during distance/ year) (use

spring academic remote comma to

2022 year 2020- learning separate

21 1 course codes)

(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

ADVANCED UNDERGRADUATE LEVEL

E24. Introduction to Proofs

E25-1. Modern Algebra I

E25-2. Modern Algebra II

E26. Number Theory

E27. Combinatorics

E28. Actuarial Mathematics

E29. Logic/Foundations (not E24)

E30. Discrete Structures (beyond Discrete

Mathematics, which is E21

E31. History of Mathematics

E32. Geometry

1 For E-13 though E-16, enter course identifiers that are sufficiently distinct to separate courses with recitation sessions,

courses that meet as a class, and other sections.

2 A calculus course is mainstream if it leads to the usual upper division mathematical sciences courses.



11



240 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Catalog

code(s) used

for courses

offered FALL

2021 (not for

Spring 2022

Name of Course (or equivalent) Taught or previous

in fall Will be Taught Offer as academic 2021 taught in during distance/ year) (use

spring academic remote comma to

2022 year 2020- learning separate

21 course codes)

(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

ADVANCED UNDERGRADUATE LEVEL (cont.)

E33-1. Advanced Calculus I and/or Real Analysis I

E33-2. Advanced Calculus II and/or Real Analysis II

E34. Advanced Mathematics for Engineering and

Physical Sciences (all courses)

E35. Advanced Linear Algebra (beyond Differential

Equations and Linear Algebra (combined ) and

Linear Algebra or Matrix Theory E18, E20)

E36. Vector Analysis

E37. Advanced Differential Equations (beyond

Differential Equations E19 )

E38. Partial Differential Equations

E39. Numerical Analysis (all courses)

E40. Applied Mathematics (Modeling)

E41. Complex Variables

E42. Topology

E43. Mathematics of Finance (not Actuarial

Mathematics E28, or Applied Mathematics

(Modeling) E40)

E44. Codes and Cryptography

E45. Biomathematics

E46. Operations Research (all courses)

E47. Senior Seminar/ Independent Study in

Mathematics

E48. All other advanced level mathematics

(excluding Math for Secondary School

Teachers, Probability or Statistics courses)

E49. Mathematics for Secondary School Teachers

(all such courses not counted above)



12



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 241



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



In the next several pages you will enter data about courses your department is teaching. For each course that is taught, you will be asked to enter the fall 2021 enrollment and the number of sections of the course. Depending upon what you indicated above, you will be asked about distance/remote learning enrollment.



The following instructions apply throughout Sections E (mathematics courses), F (statistics courses), and G (computer science courses) (pages 12-23).



• Do NOT include any dual enrollment sections or enrollments in these tables. (In this

questionnaire, a dual enrollment section is one that is conducted in a high school, taught by a high school teacher, and allows students to receive high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit from your institution for the course. These courses were reported in Section B. Include courses taught at high schools by college faculty)

• Column (a): Report distance/remote learning enrollments separately from other

enrollments. Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which more than half of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which more than half of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).

• Columns (c) and (d) for Calculus and Introductory Statistics classes. You will be asked to

list separately classes taught in a large lecture format (with recitation/problem/laboratory sections) and sections that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time (and are not divided into recitation sections). For example, for Mainstream Calculus I, you will be asked for both the number of large lecture courses (E13-1 column (c)) and the total number of recitation sections for all the large lectures (E13-1 column (d)). Please treat any large class that is sometimes broken up into smaller units as a “lecture/recitation” class (even if there is no lecture); if neither the lecture/recitation or individual class format seems an appropriate description of the enrollment, enter the enrollment under “other”.

• Courses, sections, and sessions. In this questionnaire, “course” is used to refer to the

topic area (e.g., Calculus 1 or Number Theory). You may have multiple faculty teaching the same course in the same term but at different times or locations; these divisions of the topic area into separate instances of teaching are called sections. Within a section, you may have times when the students are divided into laboratory or recitation sessions; these are counted as recitation sessions, not as separate sections.

• For all courses except as marked in E13, E14, E15, E16, F1, and F2, please do not treat

recitation sessions as separate sections. Instead, please treat both the lecture component and any associated recitation sessions as a single section.

• Do not fill in any shaded boxes.

• Any unshaded box that is left blank will be interpreted as reporting a count of zero. • Except where specifically stated to the contrary, the tables in Sections E, F, and G deal with

enrollments in fall term 2021.

• If an undergraduate course contains a mixture of graduate and undergraduate students,

report them all in column (b).



13



242 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



E50. Please enter the total fall 2021 enrollments, number of sections, and recitation sections below, as

indicated.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros



Total fall 2021 Total fall 2021 Number of Total

distance enrollment sections number of /remote NOT in corre- recitation/

education distance/ sponding problem/

enrollments1 remote to column laboratory

education and 3 4 (b) sections (where

NOT dual applicable)

enrollments2

(b) (c) (d)

Your catalog course codes (a)



1Courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g., courses in which half or more of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies). 2Do not include any dual enrollment courses, i.e., courses taught in a high school by a high school instructor for which high school students may obtain both high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit through your institution. 3Report a calculus class along with its recitation/problem/laboratory sessions as one section. 4Example: suppose your department offers four 100-student sections of a course and that each is divided into five student discussion sessions that meet separately from the lectures. Report 4*5=20 recitation/problem/laboratory sessions associated with the course, even if each discussion meets several times per week.



14



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 243



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



E51. You reported a total of [#] sections in fall 2021, distributed by course type as shown below. For

each course type, please provide the number of sections taught by tenured or tenure-eligible faculty, other full-time faculty, part-time faculty, and graduate teaching assistants.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as are taught by: Of the number in column (a), how many sections

zeros 1 Full-time faculty Part-time Graduate



Total Tenured or Faculty Teaching 2 Assistants Tenure- Other Full-

number of eligible, time

Type of course and your applicable sections Faculty Faculty

catalog course codes (d) (e) (a) (b) (c)

E51a. Precollege level



(course code list)

E51b. Introductory level, including

precalculus

(course code list)

E51c. Mainstream Calculus I) —Lecture

with separate recitation

(course code list)

E51d. Mainstream Calculus I) — Sections

that meet as a class

(course code list)

E51e. Mainstream Calculus I) —Other

sections

(course code list)

E51f. Mainstream Calculus II —Lecture

with separate recitation

(course code list)

1If your institution does not recognize tenure, report sections taught by your permanent full-time faculty in column (b) and sections taught by other full-time faculty in column (c). If your institution does recognize tenure but has faculty with renewable contracts, report these faculty as other full-time faculty (column c). Full-time faculty teaching in your department and holding joint appointments with other departments should be counted in column (b) if they are tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent (if your institution does not recognize tenure) in your department. Faculty who are not tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent in your department should be counted in column (d) if their fall 2021 teaching in your department is less than or equal to 50% of their total fall teaching assignment, and they should be reported in column (c) otherwise. (Example: If a tenured physics professor with a joint appointment in your department teaches a total of two courses in fall 2021, with exactly one being in your department and hence mathematics comprised 50% of the fall teaching assignment, then that person would be counted as parttime in your department.) 2 Report a section of a course as being taught by a graduate teaching assistant (GTA) if and only if that section is taught independently by the GTA, i.e., when it is the GTA's own course and the GTA is the instructor of record.



15



244 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as are taught by: Of the number in column (a), how many sections

zeros 1 Full-time faculty Part-time Graduate



Total Tenured or Faculty Teaching 2 Assistants Tenure- Other Full-

number of eligible, time

Type of course and your applicable sections Faculty Faculty

catalog course codes (d) (e) (a) (b) (c)

E51g. Mainstream Calculus II — Sections

that meet as a class

(course code list)

E51h. Mainstream Calculus II —Other

sections

(course code list)

E51i. Mainstream Calculus III (and IV,

etc.) —Lecture with separate

recitation

(course code list)

E51j. Mainstream Calculus III (and IV,

etc.) —Sections that meet as a

class

(course code list)

E51k. Mainstream Calculus III (and IV,

etc.) —Other sections

(course code list)

E51l. Non-mainstream Calculus —Lecture

with separate recitation

(course code list)

E51m. Non-mainstream Calculus —

Sections that meet as a class

(course code list) —Other sections

E51n. Non-mainstream Calculus —Other

sections not listed above

(course code list)



E51o. Non-mainstream Calculus II, III, etc.

(course code list)



E51p. Other Calculus Level Courses



(course code list)



E51q. Advanced Undergraduate Level



(course code list)



16



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 245



F. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



F. Does your department offer any Probability and/or Statistics Courses?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to F1 below.



No ................... If No, go to Section G.



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021, will be taught in Spring 2022, or were taught at any time in 2020-21? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or

developmental/remedial programs separate from your mathematics program or department.

• Include courses taught through distance/remote education. • Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses. This information

will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row. • Calculus and Introductory Statistics classes. You will be asked to list separately classes

taught in a large lecture format (with recitation/problem/laboratory sections) and, sections that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time (and are not divided into recitation sections). Please treat any large class that is sometimes broken up into smaller units as a “lecture/recitation” class (even if there is no lecture); if neither the lecture/recitation or individual class format seems an appropriate description of the enrollment, enter the enrollment under “other.”

Taught in Catalog code(s) fall 2021 used for Fall 2021

(use comma to

Name of Course (or equivalent) separate codes)1



Statistics



INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS (no calculus prerequisite; designed for non-majors/minors [General Education Courses] but may be taken by major/minors)



F1-1. Lecture with separately scheduled recitation/problem/laboratory

sessions

F1-2. Individual sections not in F1-1, that meet as a class with an instructor at a

regularly scheduled time

F1-3. Other sections not listed above

INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS (calculus prerequisite)

F2-1. Lecture with separately scheduled recitation/problem/laboratory

sessions

F2-2. Individual sections not in F2-1, that meet as a class with an instructor

at a regularly scheduled time

F2-3. Sections not listed above



OTHER INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS courses



17



246 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F3. Statistics for pre-service elementary and/or middle grade teachers

F4. Statistics for pre-service secondary school teachers

F5. Intermediate statistics (non-calculus)

F6. Other introductory level Probability or Statistics courses designed for

non-majors/minors

1 For F-1 and F-2, enter course identifiers that are sufficiently distinct to separate courses with recitation sessions, courses

that meet as a class, and other sections.



18



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 247



F. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021, will be taught in Spring 2022, or were taught at any time in 2020-21? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or

developmental/remedial programs separate from your mathematics program or department.

• Include courses taught through distance/remote education. • Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses. This information

will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row. • Calculus and Introductory Statistics classes. You will be asked to list separately classes

taught in a large lecture format (with recitation/problem/laboratory sections) and, sections that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time (and are not divided into recitation sections). Please treat any large class that is sometimes broken up into smaller units as a “lecture/recitation” class (even if there is no lecture); if neither the lecture/recitation or individual class format seems an appropriate description of the enrollment, enter the enrollment under “other.”



Catalog

code(s) used

for courses

offered Fall

2021 (not for

courses

offered

Name of Course (or equivalent) Spring 2022

Taught or previous

in fall Will be Taught Offer as academic 2021 taught in during distance/ year A) (use

spring academic remote comma to

2022 year 2020- learning separate

21 course1 codes)

(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCED LEVEL

F7. Combined Probability Statistics (calculus

prerequisite)

F8. Probability (calculus prerequisite)

F9. Mathematical Statistics (calculus prerequisite)

F10. Stochastic Processes

F11. Data Science/Analytics/Statistical Learning

F12. Design Analysis of Experiments (ANOVA)

F13. Applied Regression

F14. Linear Models I

F15. Linear Models II

F16. Biostatistics



19



248 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F17. Nonparametric Statistics

F18. Categorical Data Analysis

F19. Sample Survey Design Analysis

F20. Statistical Computing or Software

F21. Bayesian Statistics

F22. Statistical Consulting

F23. Senior Seminar/Capstone

F24. All other upper level Probability Statistics

related courses

1Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which the majority of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).



20



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 249



F. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



F25. Please enter the total fall 2021 enrollments, number of sections, and recitation sections below,

as indicated.



Instructions



• Do NOT include any dual enrollment sections or enrollments in these tables. (In this

questionnaire, a dual enrollment section is one that is conducted in a high school, taught by a high school teacher, and allows students to receive high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit from your institution for the course. These courses were reported in Section B. Include courses taught at high schools by college faculty)

• Column (a): Report distance/remote learning enrollments separately from other

enrollments. Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which more than half of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which more than half of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).

• Columns (c) and (d) for Calculus and Introductory Statistics classes. You will be asked to

list separately classes taught in a large lecture format (with recitation/problem/laboratory sections) and sections that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time (and are not divided into recitation sections). For example, for Introductory Statistics, you will be asked for both the number of large lecture courses (F1-1 column (c)) and the total number of recitation sections for all the large lectures (F1-1 column (d)). Please treat any large class that is sometimes broken up into smaller units as a “lecture/recitation” class (even if there is no lecture); if neither the lecture/recitation or individual class format seems an appropriate description of the enrollment, enter the enrollment under “other”.

• Courses, sections, and sessions. In this questionnaire, “course” is used to refer to the

topic area (e.g., Calculus 1 or Number Theory). You may have multiple faculty teaching the same course in the same term but at different times or locations; these divisions of the topic area into separate instances of teaching are called sections. Within a section, you may have times when the students are divided into laboratory or recitation sessions; these are counted as recitation sessions, not as separate sections.

• For all courses except as marked in F1 and F2, please do not treat recitation sessions as

separate sections. Instead, please treat both the lecture component and any associated recitation sessions as a single section.

• Do not fill in any shaded boxes.

• Any unshaded box that is left blank will be interpreted as reporting a count of zero. • Except where specifically stated to the contrary, the tables in Sections E, F, and G deal with

enrollments in fall term 2021.

• If an undergraduate course contains a mixture of graduate and undergraduate students,

report them all in column (b).



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros



Total fall 2021 Total fall 2021 Number of Total

distance/ enrollment sections number of

remote NOT in corre- recitation/

Your catalog course codes education distance/ sponding problem/



21



250 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



enrollments1 remote to column laboratory

education and (b) 3 sections4 (where

NOT dual applicable)

enrollments2

(a) (b) (c) (d)



1Courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which half or more of the course is taught online (synchronously or asynchronously), or by computer software, or by other technologies). 2Do not include any dual enrollment courses, i.e., courses taught in a high school by a high school instructor for which high school students may obtain both high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit through your institution. 3Report a calculus class along with its recitation/problem/laboratory sessions as one section. 4Example: suppose your department offers four 100-student sections of a course and that each is divided into five student discussion sessions that meet separately from the lectures. Report 4*5=20 recitation/problem/laboratory sessions associated with the course, even if each discussion meets several times per week.



22



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 251



F. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



F26. You reported a total of # sections in fall 2021, distributed by course type as shown below. For

each course type, please provide the number of sections taught by tenured or tenure-eligible faculty, other full-time faculty, part-time faculty, and graduate teaching assistants.



Instructions



• Any unshaded box that is left blank will be interpreted as reporting a count of zero. • Except where specifically stated to the contrary, the tables in Sections E, F, and G deal with

enrollments in fall term 2021.



Of the number in column (a), how many sections

◆ are taught by: Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros

Full-time faculty1 Part-time Graduate

Faculty Teaching

Total Tenured or Other 2

Assistants

number of Tenure- Full-time

sections eligible, Faculty

Type of course and your applicable Faculty

catalog course codes (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

a. Introductory Statistics (no calculus

prerequisite) —Lecture with

separate recitation

(course code list)

b. Introductory Statistics (no calculus

prerequisite) —Sections that meet

as a class

(course code list)

c. Introductory Statistics (no calculus

prerequisite) —Other sections

(course code list)

1If your institution does not recognize tenure, report sections taught by your permanent full-time faculty in column (b) and sections taught by other full-time faculty in column (c). If your institution does recognize tenure but has faculty with renewable contracts, report these faculty as other full-time faculty (column c). Full-time faculty teaching in your department and holding joint appointments with other departments should be counted in column (b) if they are tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent (if your institution does not recognize tenure) in your department. Faculty who are not tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent in your department should be counted in column (d) if their fall 2021 teaching in your department is less than or equal to 50% of their total fall teaching assignment, and they should be reported in column (c) otherwise. (Example: If a tenured physics professor with a joint appointment in your department teaches a total of two courses in fall 2021, with exactly one being in your department and hence mathematics comprised 50% of the fall teaching assignment, then that person would be counted as parttime in your department.) 2 Report a section of a course as being taught by a graduate teaching assistant (GTA) if and only if that section is taught independently by the GTA, i.e., when it is the GTA's own course and the GTA is the instructor of record.



23



252 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Of the number in column (a), how many sections

◆ are taught by: Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros

Full-time faculty1 Part-time Graduate

Faculty Teaching

Total Tenured or Other 2

Assistants

number of Tenure- Full-time

sections eligible, Faculty

Type of course and your applicable Faculty

catalog course codes (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

d. Introductory Statistics (calculus

prerequisite) (not for majors) —

Lecture with separate recitation

(course code list)

e. Introductory Statistics (calculus

prerequisite) (not for majors) —

Sections that meet as a class

(course code list)

f. Introductory Statistics (calculus

prerequisite) (not for majors) —

Other sections

(course code list)



g. Statistics for Pre-service Teachers



(course code list)



h. Other introductory level Statistics



(course code list)



i. Advanced Undergraduate Level



(course code list)



24



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 253



G. Computer Science Courses (Fall 2021) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



G. Does your department offer any Computer Science courses?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to G1 below.



No .................... If No, go to Section H.



• Please refer to the course reporting instructions at the beginning of Section E.



In December 2013, a joint IEEE Computer Society/ACM Task Force issued its recommendations on “Computer Science Curricula 2013.”

That report, which listed 18 Knowledge Areas, is available by clicking http://www.acm.org/education/CS2013-final-report.pdf



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• See the complete instructions for this table in Section E.



Catalog code(s)

used for courses

offered Fall 2021

(not for courses

offered Spring 2022

or previous

Name of Course (or equivalent)

academic year A)

Taught in fall 2021 (use comma to

separate codes)



(a) (c)

Computer Science



GENERAL EDUCATION COURSES

G1. Computers and Society, Issues in CS

G2. Intro. to Software Packages

G3. Other CS General Education Courses

INTRODUCTORY CS COURSES

G4. Computer Programming I

G5. Computer Programming II

G6. 4 Discrete Structures DS), but not math courses E21 or E30 in

Section E above

G7. All other introductory level CS courses



25



254 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



G. Computer Science Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Catalog code(s) used for courses

offered Fall 2021 (not for courses

offered Spring 2022 or previous

Taught in fall 2021 academic year A) (use comma to

Name of Course (or equivalent)

separate codes)



(a) (e)

INTERMEDIATE LEVEL

G8. 2 Algorithms and Complexity (AL)

G9. 2 Architecture and Organization (AR)

G10. Operating Systems (OS)2

G11. Networking and Communication (NC)2

G12. Programming Languages (PL)2

G13. Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) 2

G14. Intelligent Systems (IS)2

G15. Information Management (IM)2

G16. Social Issues and Professional Practice (SP)2

G17. Software Development Fundamentals (SDF)2

G18. Computational Science (CN)2



UPPER LEVEL

G19. Graphics and Visualization (GV)2

G20. Information Assurance and Security (IAS)2

G21. Parallel and Distributed Computing (PD)2

G22. All other intermediate or advanced level CS

Courses (including knowledge areas PBD, SE,

SF) 2

1Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which the majority of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies). 2 Knowledge areas from Computer Science Curricula 2013



26



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 255



G. Computer Science Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



G23. Please enter the total fall 2021 enrollments and number of sections below, as indicated.



Instructions



• Do NOT include any dual enrollment sections or enrollments in these tables. (In this

questionnaire, a dual enrollment section is one that is conducted in a high school, taught by a high school teacher, and allows students to receive high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit from your institution for the course. These courses were reported in Section B. Include courses taught at high schools by college faculty)

• Column (a): Report distance/remote learning enrollments separately from other enrollments.

Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which more than half of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which more than half of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).

• Courses, sections, and sessions. In this questionnaire, “course” is used to refer to the topic

area (e.g., Calculus 1 or Number Theory). You may have multiple faculty teaching the same course in the same term but at different times or locations; these divisions of the topic area into separate instances of teaching are called sections. Within a section, you may have times when the students are divided into laboratory or recitation sessions; these are counted as recitation sessions, not as separate sections.

• Do not fill in any shaded boxes.

• Any unshaded box that is left blank will be interpreted as reporting a count of zero. • Except where specifically stated to the contrary, the tables in Sections E, F, and G deal with

enrollments in fall term 2021.

• If an undergraduate course contains a mixture of graduate and undergraduate students, report

them all in column (b).



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros



Total fall 2021 Total fall 2021

distance/remote enrollment Number of

education NOT in distance/ sections

enrollments1 remote education corresponding

and NOT dual to column (b) 3

enrollments2

Your catalog course codes (a) (b) (c)



27



256 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



1Courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which half or more of the course is taught online synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies). 2Do not include any dual enrollments (see Section B) 3Report a calculus class along with its recitation/problem/laboratory sessions as one section. 4Example: suppose your department offers four 100-student sections of a course and that each is divided into five student discussion sessions that meet separately from the lectures. Report 4*5=20 recitation/problem/laboratory sessions associated with the course, even if each discussion meets several times per week.



28



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 257



G. Computer Science Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



G24. You reported a total of # sections in fall 2021, distributed by course type as shown below. For each course type,

please provide the number of sections taught by tenured or tenure-eligible faculty, other full-time faculty, part-time faculty, and graduate teaching assistants.



Instructions



• Any unshaded box that is left blank will be interpreted as reporting a count of zero. • Except where specifically stated to the contrary, the tables in Sections E, F, and G deal with

enrollments in fall term 2021.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros are taught by: Of the number in column (a), how many sections

Full-time faculty 1 Part-time Graduate

Faculty Teaching

Total Tenured or Other 2 Assistants

number of Tenure- Full-time

sections eligible, Faculty

Type of course and your applicable Faculty

catalog course codes (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

a. General Education Course



(course code list)



b. Introductory CS



(course code list)



c. Intermediate Level



(course code list)



d. Upper Level



(course code list)

1 If your institution does not recognize tenure, report sections taught by your permanent full-time faculty in column (b) and sections taught by other full-time faculty in column (c). If your institution does recognize tenure but has faculty with renewable contracts, report these faculty as other full-time faculty (column c).

Full-time faculty teaching in your department and holding joint appointments with other departments should be counted in column (b) if they are tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent (if your institution does not recognize tenure) in your department. Faculty who are not tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent in your department should be counted in column (d) if their fall 2021 teaching in your department is less than or equal to 50% of their total fall teaching assignment, and they should be reported in column (c) otherwise. (Example: If a tenured physics professor with a joint appointment in your department teaches a total of two courses in fall 2021, with exactly one being in your department and hence mathematics comprised 50% of the fall teaching assignment, then that person would be counted as parttime in your department.)

2 Report a section of a course as being taught by a graduate teaching assistant (GTA) if and only if that section is taught independently by the GTA, i.e., when it is the GTA's own course and the GTA is the instructor of record.



29



258 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire

H. Precalculus/Introductory Mathematics and Statistics Instruction



Introductory Mathematics



H1. Has your department offered a non-traditional “pathways” course sequence within the last five

years?



Yes .................



No ...................



(“Pathways” is defined to be a single course or course sequence that enables students to complete a college-level gateway mathematics or statistics course that is aligned to students' academic and/or career goals within one academic year.)



H2. Does your department offer any Precollege or Introductory Level (including Precalculus)

mathematics courses for credit (courses E1-E12) in Fall 2021?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H3



No ................... If No, go to H4.



H3. How often are each of the following instructional strategies used in the Precollege and

Introductory Level mathematics courses (courses E1-E12) you offered for credit in Fall 2021?



At least

Almost

once a

never

week Occasionally

a. Focusing on conceptual understanding over formulas

and procedures



b. Integrating real-world applications



c. Using student-centered active learning strategies



d. Using assessments such as regular graded homework

or quizzes used to inform teaching



30



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 259



Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire

H. Precalculus/Introductory Mathematics and Statistics Instruction (cont.)



Introductory Statistics



H4. Does your department offer an Introductory Statistics (no calculus prerequisite) course (course

F1) in Fall 2021?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H5



No ................... If No, go to H8.



H5. How many different kinds of introductory statistics courses designed for non-majors that have no

calculus prerequisite does your department offer? (e.g. statistics for social scientists, for life scientists, or as general education courses for a broad audience)



1 ....................................................................

2 ....................................................................

3 ....................................................................

More than 3 ...................................................



The following questions are about instruction in the course F1: Introductory Statistics (no calculus prerequisite) on page 15. If you offer more than one such course, choose the course that is aimed at the most general audience.



H6. How often are each of these instructional strategies used in the Introductory Statistics courses

taught in your department in Fall 2021?



At least

once a Almost

week Occasionally never



a. Focusing on conceptual understanding over formulas and

procedures



b. Integrating real world applications



c. Students collect, organize, and analyze real data



d. Using student-centered active learning strategies



e. Using assessments such as regular graded homework or

quizzes used to inform teaching



31



260 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire

H. Precalculus/Introductory Mathematics and Statistics Instruction (cont.)



H7. Technology used in teaching Introductory Statistics could include graphing calculators, statistical

software, or online applets.



How successful is your program in adopting each of the following use of technology in your Introductory Statistics (no calculus prerequisite) courses taught in Fall 2021?



Very Somewhat Not

Successful Successful Successful



a. Students use technology to explore concepts



b. Instructors use technology to demonstrate concepts



c. Students use technology to analyze data



d. Students’ ability to use technology to solve problems is

assessed



H8. Are there other introductory statistics courses at your institution, offered by departments outside

of the mathematical sciences?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H9



No ................... If No, go to H10.



H9. Enter the Fall 2021 total enrollment in all such introductory statistics courses, offered outside of

the mathematical sciences, at your institution. _______



H10. Are there introductory data science courses at your institution offered by other departments?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H11



No ................... If No, go to Section I.



H11. Enter the Fall 2021 total enrollment in all such introductory data science courses, offered outside

of your department at your institution. _______



32



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 261



I. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



If you do not offer a major in a mathematical science, check here and go to I5. Otherwise go to I1.



I1. Report the total number of your departmental majors who received their bachelor’s degrees in the

mathematical sciences or computer sciences between July 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021. Include joint majors and double majors 1



Number of majors receiving degrees.............................



I2. Of the undergraduate degrees described in I1, please report the number who majored in each of

the following categories. Each student should be reported only once. Include all double and joint majors1 in your totals. Use the Other Mathematics Major category for a major in your department who does not fit into one of the listed categories.



Area of Major Men Women Nonbinary



a. Mathematics (including applied) ............................



b. Mathematics Education .........................................



c. Statistics ................................................................



d. Computer Science .................................................



e. Actuarial Mathematics ...........................................



f. Joint 1 Mathematics Majors .....................................



g. Other Mathematics Majors .....................................

1 A “double major” is a student who completes the degree requirements of two separate majors, one in mathematics and one in another program or department. A “joint major” is a student who completes a single major in your department that integrates courses from mathematics and some other program or department and typically requires fewer credit hours that the sum of the credit hours required by the separate majors.



33



262 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



I. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



I3. To what extent must majors in your department complete the following? Check one box in each

row.



Required of Required of some Not required

all majors but not all majors of any major



a. Modern Algebra I .......................................



b. Real Analysis I ...........................................

c. Modern Algebra I or Real Analysis I

(majors may choose either to fulfill this

requirement) .............................................

d. A one-year upper level sequence .............



e. At least one computer science course ......



f. At least one statistics course ....................

g. At least one applied mathematics course

beyond calculus level (in Section E) .........

h. A capstone experience (e.g., a senior

project, a senior thesis, a senior seminar,

or an internship) .......................................



i. An exit exam (written or oral) ....................



I4. Give your best estimate of the percentage of your department’s graduating majors from the

previous academic year 2020-21 (reported in I1) in each of the following categories. Please make the totals add to 100 percent.



a. Who went into pre-college teaching ................................................................ %



b. Who went to graduate school in the mathematical sciences ............................ %

c. Who went to professional school or to graduate school outside of the

%

mathematical sciences .....................................................................................

d. Who took jobs in business, industry, government, etc. ..................................... %



e. Who had other post-graduation plans known to the department ...................... %



f. Whose plans are not known to the department ............................................... %



34



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 263



I. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



I5. Many departments today use a spectrum of program-assessment methods. Please indicate

whether each of the following apply to your department’s undergraduate program-assessment efforts during the last six years.



Yes No

a. We conducted a review of our undergraduate program that

included one or more reviewers from outside of our institution .............

b. We asked graduates of our undergraduate program to comment

on and suggest changes in our undergraduate program ......................

c. Other departments at our institution were invited to comment on

the preparation that their students received in our courses ..................

d. Data on our students’ progress in subsequent mathematics

courses were gathered and analyzed .................................................

e. We have developed a set of student learning outcomes for our

program ...............................................................................................

f. We have assessed student learning objectives in courses

required in our major ............................................................................

g. We have a placement system for first-year students and we

gathered and analyzed data on its effectiveness .................................

h. Our department’s program assessment activities led to changes

in our undergraduate program .............................................................



35



264 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



I6. Please indicate the extent to which the following activities have taken place in the past year in your department in response to increased national attention to equity, diversity, and inclusion issues (here the term “demographic” includes race, ethnicity, gender, disability status, and other characteristics of individuals).



None Some A lot Not applicable

a. Faculty discussion designed

to increase awareness of

equity, diversity, and

inclusion issues

b. Student discussion designed

to increase awareness of

equity, diversity, and

inclusion issues

c. Program or policy changes to

affect the demographic

balance of faculty in the

mathematical sciences.



d. Program or policy changes to

affect the demographic

balance of undergraduate

students in mathematical

sciences.

e. Program or policy changes

intended to affect the

demographic balance of

graduate students in

mathematical sciences.

f. Consideration of existing or

new programs to assist

underrepresented groups

and/or at-risk students in the

mathematical sciences.



g. Please describe any other steps your department or institution has taken in the past year that deal

with equity, diversity, and inclusion as they pertain to the study of and employment in the mathematical sciences.



36



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 265



I. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



I7. For each of the following opportunities, indicate whether or not it is available to your

undergraduate mathematical sciences students through your department or institutions.



Yes No



a. Honors sections of departmental courses ...........................................



b. An undergraduate Mathematical Science Club ...................................

c. Special mathematics programs to encourage women ..........................



d. Special mathematics programs to encourage minorities ......................



e. Opportunities to participate in mathematical science contests .............

f. Special mathematics statistics lectures/colloquia not part of a

mathematical science club ..................................................................

g. Mathematical sciences outreach opportunities in local K–12

schools ................................................................................................



h. Undergraduate research opportunities in mathematical sciences ........



i. Independent study opportunities in mathematical sciences ..................

j. Assigned faculty advisers in mathematical sciences ............................



k. Opportunity to write a senior thesis in mathematical sciences..............



l. A career day for mathematical sciences majors ...................................

m. Special advising about graduate school opportunities in

mathematical sciences.........................................................................



n. Opportunity for an internship experience..............................................

o. Opportunity to participate in a senior seminar .....................................



p. Opportunity to tutor, grade papers, or TA in the department ................

q. Opportunity to provide mathematical or statistical consulting to

client ....................................................................................................



I8. Give your best estimate of the number of all of your majors who have participated in each of the

following activities over the past year September 1, 2020 – August 31, 2021.



a. Undergraduate research project in the mathematical sciences _________

b. Internship in mathematical sciences__________

c. Mathematical or statistical consulting for client __________



37



266 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



I. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



I9. Does your department offer interdisciplinary course(s) in any of the following areas below: (Check

all that apply.) An interdisciplinary course is one in which mathematics is taught with relation to another field such as mathematics and economics, or mathematics and education; do not include calculus courses.



a. Mathematics and finance or business ..............................................................



b. Mathematics and biology .................................................................................



c. Mathematics and the study of the environment ................................................



d. Mathematics and engineering or the physical sciences ....................................



e. Mathematics and economics ............................................................................



f. Mathematics and social sciences other than economics ..................................



g. Mathematics and education .............................................................................



h. Mathematics and the humanities......................................................................



i. Mathematics and computer science .................................................................



j. Mathematics and social justice.........................................................................



k. Other ...............................................................................................................



I10a. Does your department offer a minor in statistics?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to I10b



No ................... If No, go to I11.



I10b. How many students graduated with a minor in statistics from your department between July 1,

2020 and June 30, 2021? _____



38



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 267



I. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



I11. Does your department offer a major in statistics?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to I12



No ................... If No, go to I13.



I12. To what extent must statistics majors in your department complete the following? Check one box

in each row.



Required of Required of some Not required

all majors but not all majors of any major



a. Calculus I .................................................

b. Calculus II .................................................



c. Multivariable Calculus ................................

d. Linear Algebra/Matrix Theory ...................



e. At least one computer science course .......

f. At least one applied mathematics course

(not including a, b, c, d above) ..................

g. A capstone experience (e.g., a senior

project, a senior thesis, a senior

seminar, or an internship) .........................

h. An exit exam (written or oral) ....................



i. At least one upper level Probability course

j. At least one upper-level Mathematical

Statistics course ........................................



k. At least one applied statistics course .........

l. At least one upper-level Linear Models

course .......................................................



m. One Bayesian Inference course.................



I13. Does your institution allow a student to meet an institutional or divisional graduation requirement

in the mathematical sciences using an Advanced Placement course (taken while the student was in high school)?



Yes .................



No ...................



39



268 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



J. Pre-service Teacher Education in Mathematics Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Questions regarding the preparation of pre-service grades 9-12 mathematics teachers :



J1. Does your institution offer a program of study that leads to obtaining credentials to teach

mathematics in public high schools (any license that includes grades 9-12) in your state?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to J2



No ................... If No, skip to J5.



J2. How many semester hours of mathematics or statistics courses from your department are

required by your institution’s program of certification for pre-service secondary mathematics teachers (grades 9-12)? ______



J3. How many semester hours of mathematics or statistics courses from your department with a

primary focus on high school mathematics from an advanced viewpoint are required in your institution’s program of certification for pre-service secondary mathematics teachers (grades 9-12)? _______



40



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 269



J. Pre-service Teacher Education in Mathematics (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



J4. Considering the teacher preparation program at your institution, in each of the following core

areas indicate whether the core area is required of all students seeking mathematics certification, if the course is generally taken by those seeking certification (if it is not required), and if in that core area your department offers a special course that is specifically designed for pre-service secondary mathematics teachers.

If required Special

is “No” Course

Required

Course Generally Offered

Taken

Yes No Yes No Yes No

a. Advanced Calculus/Analysis



b. Modern Algebra



c. Number Theory



d. Geometry



e. Discrete Mathematics



f. History of Mathematics



g. Introductory Statistics that includes a simulation-

based approach to inference (whether or not

accompanied by a normal-based approach



h. Introductory Statistics that only includes a normal-

based (non-simulation-based) approach to

inference



i. Statistical Methods with an introductory course as

a prerequisite



j. Statistical Modeling



k. Probability and/or statistics with calculus

prerequisite



l. Other (specify)

_________________________________



41



270 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



J. Pre-service Teacher Education in Mathematics (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Questions regarding the preparation of pre-service teachers of mathematics in grades 6-8:



J5. Does your institution offer a program of study that leads to obtaining credentials to teach

mathematics in public middle schools (any license that includes grades 6-8) in your state?



Yes, and the program has different requirements from those

for teaching mathematics at the elementary or high school

levels ................................................................................. Go to J6.



Yes, but the program is identical to that for either the high

school mathematics teacher preparation program or the

elementary mathematics teacher preparation program. ..... Skip to J9.



No. ......................................................................................... Skip to J9.



J6. How many semester hours of courses in mathematics from your department are required by your

institution’s program of certification for pre-service middle grades (6-8) teachers of mathematics? _______



J7. How many semester hours of courses in statistics from your department are required by your

institution’s program of certification for pre-service middle grades (6-8) teachers of mathematics? _______



J8. How many semester hours of courses from your department on fundamental ideas of

mathematics appropriate for middle grade teachers are required by your institution’s program of certification for pre-service middle grades (6-8) teachers of mathematics? ______



42



Appendix V. Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 271



J. Pre-service Teacher Education in Mathematics (cont.) Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



Questions regarding the preparation of pre-service teachers of mathematics in grades K-5.



J9. Does your institution offer a program of study that leads to obtaining credentials to teach

mathematics in public elementary schools (any license that includes grades K-5) in your state?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to J10



No ................... If No, skip to Section K.



J10. How many semester hours of courses in mathematics from your department are required by your

institution’s program of certification for pre-service elementary grades (K-5) teachers of mathematics? _________________



J11. How many semester hours of courses in statistics from your department are required by your

institution’s program of certification for pre-service elementary grades (K-5) teachers of mathematics? _________________



J12. How many semester hours of courses from your department on fundamental ideas of

mathematics appropriate for elementary teachers are required by your institution’s program of certification for prospective elementary grades (K-5) teachers of mathematics? ______________



43



272 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



K. Comments and Suggestions Four-Year Mathematics Questionnaire



If you found some question(s) difficult to interpret or answer, please let us know. We welcome suggestions to improve future surveys (e.g., CBMS 2025).



Comments:

__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



Thank you for completing this questionnaire. We know it was a time-

consuming process and we hope that the resulting survey report,

which we hope to publish in spring 2023, will be of use to you and

your department.



Please keep a copy of your responses to this questionnaire in case

questions arise.

Appendix VI





Annual Survey Other Full-time Faculty



of the Mathematical Sciences Survey AMS • ASA • IMS • MAA • SIAM www.ams.org/annual-survey/forms

Return to: American Mathematical Society • P.O. Box 6248 • Providence, RI 02940-6248

Email: ams-survey@ams.org • Fax: 401-331-3842 (Attn:Surveys) •Tel: 800-321-4267, ext. 4189

Web: www.ams.org/deptprofile



Institution name: ______________________________________________________________________________________

Department name: _____________________________________________________________________________________

City/State/Zipcode: ___________________________________________________________ Date: ________________

Name of person completing form: ______________________________________ Title: ____________________________

Email: ____________________________________________________________ Phone: __________________________

Please complete this form by February 25, 2022, keeping a copy for your records, and return it to the above address.



The purpose of this brief questionnaire is to obtain detailed information about the early career arcs of individuals with PhDs in mathematical sciences. The results of this survey will be reported in the next 2021 CBMS Statistical Abstract of Undergraduate Programs in the Mathematical Sciences in the United States.



1. Indicate the number of individuals in your department in 2020–21 who were postdoctoral faculty (those in a temporary position primarily

intended to provide an opportunity to extend graduate training or to further research experience) _______ [1.a]; of these how many are not classifiable as postdoctoral research faculty in your department in 2021–22 _______ [1.b] (include postdocs who remain in your department in a different appointment).



Of those reported in [1.b], give the number whose employment status in 2021–22 (at your institution or elsewhere) is

_____[1.c] A tenure-track appointment _____[1.g] A non-academic appointment _____[1.d] Another postdoctoral research appointment _____[1.h] Unemployed _____[1.e] A renewable appointment _____[1.i] Unknown _____[1.f] A non-renewable appointment



2. Indicate the number of faculty in your department during 2020–21 not counted in [1.a] who were in renewable non-tenure-track positions (e.g.

lecturer, teaching professional, professor of the practice) _______[2.a]; of these how many are not in your department in 2021–22 _______[2.b].



Indicate the number of faculty in your department in 2021–22 in renewable non-tenure-track, non-postdoc positions _______ [2.c]

Of those reported in [2.c], indicate the number who are typically engaged in each of the following activities (note that the sum of the values entered here may be larger than that in [2.c]):

_____[2.d] Teaching _____[2.i] Advise undergraduate research projects _____[2.e] Research _____[2.j] Serve as academic advisor to undergraduates _____[2.f] Attend research conferences with financial support or graduate students _____[2.g] Attend teaching conferences with financial support _____[2.k] Serve on university/college committees _____[2.h] Serve on department committees _____[2.l] Serve as department course coordinators



3. Indicate the number of faculty in your department during 2020–21 not counted in [1.a] who were in fixed-term (not renewable) non-tenure-track

positions _______[3.a]; of these how many are not in your department in 2021–22 _______[3.b].



Indicate the number of faculty in your department in 2021–22 in fixed-term (not renewable) non-tenure-track, non-postdoc positions _______ [3.c]

Of those reported in [3.c], indicate the number who are typically engaged in each of the following activities (note that the sum of the values entered here may be larger than that in [3.c]):

_____[3.d] Teaching _____[3.i] Advise undergraduate research projects _____[3.e] Research _____[3.j] Serve as academic advisor to undergraduates _____[3.f] Attend research conferences with financial support or graduate students _____[3.g] Attend teaching conferences with financial support _____[3.k] Serve on university/college committees _____[3.h] Serve on department committees _____[3.l] Serve as department course coordinators



273

Appendix VII



Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire





275

276 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



General Information Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



As part of a random sample, your department has been selected to participate in the CBMS 2021 National Survey, the importance of which has been endorsed by all of our major professional societies. Please read the instructions in each section carefully and complete all of the pertinent item s as indicated.



If your college does not have a departmental or divisional structure, consider the group of all mathematics instructors to be the “mathematics department” for the purpose of this survey.



If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire multi-campus system to which you belong. If it is not appropriate to report for the entire system (i.e., because at least one campus directly administers its own program), please call Westat at 1-855-770-0558.



This questionnaire should be completed by the person who is directly in charge of the mathematics program or department on your cam pus. It may be that a different person, such as the college Registrar or a person in Institutional Research, is best equipped to answer Section F on course enrollment; we provide a method for delegating that section to another person in case that will help you. Please contact Westat at 855-770-0558 or send an email to cbms2021@westat.com if you would like to delegate a section to another person.



Report on all of your courses and instructors that fall under the general heading of the mathematics program or department. Include all mathematics and statistics courses taught within your mathematics program or department.



We have classified your department as belonging to a two-year college, to a college or campus within a two-year system, or to a two-year branch of a university system. If this is not correct, please contact Richelle (Rikki) Blair at the email address or telephone number given below.



We recommend completing this questionnaire online because the online system will automatically skip those questions that are not applicable to you (based on the responses you give). However, this survey may be completed using a hard-copy questionnaire.



If you have any questions, please contact Richelle (Rikki) Blair, Associate Director for Two- Year Colleges, by email at richelle.blair@sbcglobal.net or by phone at 440-212-5965. For help with the online questionnaire, call Westat at 855-770-0558 or send an email to cbms2021@westat.com.



Please return your completed questionnaire by October 29, 2021, either online or by mailing a hard copy to:



CBMS Survey

Westat

1600 Research Boulevard

Rockville, MD 20850-3129



Please retain a copy of your responses to this questionnaire in case questions arise.



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 277



A. General Information Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



PLEASE PRINT CLEARLY



A1. Name of your campus:



A2. Name of your department:



A3. Mailing address of the multi-campus organization to which your campus belongs (if any). (Write

NA if your campus does not belong to a multi-campus organization.)



____________________________________________________________________________________



____________________________________________________________________________________



A4. We have classified your department as belonging to a two-year college or to a college campus

within a two-year college system, or to a two-year branch of a university system. Do you agree?



Yes .................. go to the next question.



No ................... please contact Richelle (Rikki) Blair,

Survey Associate Director, by email

(richelle.blair@sbcglobal.net) or by phone (440-212-5965) before proceeding any further.



A5. What is the unit (= academic discipline group) that most directly administers the mathematics

program on your campus? (Check one box.)



Mathematics Department (department does not offer Computer Science) ........................

Mathematics and Computer Science Department or Division (department also offers Computer Science, whether or not it is part of the title) ....................................

Mathematics and Science Department or Division ............................................................

Other Departments or Division ..........................................................................................



1



278 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



A. General Information (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



A6. To help us project enrollment for the current academic year (2021–2022), please give the

following enrollment figures for the previous academic year (2020–2021) not counting summer enrollment.



a. Fall 2020 total student enrollment in your mathematics courses ..................................

b. Entire academic year 2020 –2021 enrollment in your mathematics courses ..................

c. Calculus II total enrollment in winter/spring 2021 .........................................................

d. Calculus II total number of sections in winter/spring 2021 ............................................



A7. Does your college organize its developmental education, including mathematics, in a separately

administered department or division?



Yes .................



No ...................



A8. Your name or contact person

in your department:



A9. Your email address or contact

person's e-mail address:



A10. Your phone number or contact

person's phone number including

area code:



A11. Campus mailing address:



2



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 279



Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire

B. Mathematics Faculty in Mathematics Department/Program (Fall 2021)



• If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire system. • Bold faculty categories defined in this section will be used in later sections.



B1. For fall 2021, what is the total number of full-time mathematics faculty in your

department/program, both permanent and temporary, including those on leave, on sabbatical, or have otherwise temporarily left the department?



Number of full-time mathematics faculty ..................................................................



B2. Of the number in B1, how many are tenured, tenure-eligible, on a tenure-track, or

otherwise considered to be permanent faculty (including appointive and probationary faculty, and those who are on leave or sabbatical)? We will refer to these as “permanent full-time faculty.”



Number of permanent full-time faculty .....................................................................



B3. Of the number in B1 and excluding those in B2, how many are continuing full-

time faculty? We will refer to these as “non-tenure-track full-time faculty.”



Number of non-tenure track full-time faculty ............................................................



B4. Give the number of “other full-time faculty” by computing B1 minus (B2 and B3)



B5. For the permanent full-time faculty reported in B2,



a. give the required teaching assignment in weekly contact hours ........................



b. give the number of office hours required weekly in association with

the teaching assignment in B5a (count all office hours, including those offered online) ....................................................................................................



B6. For the permanent full-time faculty reported in B2, how many teach

extra credit hours for extra pay at your campus or within your organization?



Number who teach extra credit hours for extra pay at your campus or within your organization .....................................................................................................



3



280 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire

B. Mathematics Faculty in Mathematics Department/Program (Fall 2021) (cont.)



B7. For the permanent full-time faculty reported in B2, how many permanent faculty teach extra credit

hours per week in the following categories?



a. Number who teach 1 –3 credit hours extra weekly .............................................



b. Number who teach 4 –6 credit hours extra weekly ............................................



c. Number who teach 7 or more credit hours extra weekly ..................................



B8. For fall 2021, how many part-time mathematics faculty are teaching in your department? (Note:

none of these were reported above.)



a. Number of part-time mathematics faculty paid by your college ......................



b. Number of part-time faculty paid only by a third party, such as a school

district paying faculty who teach dual-enrollment courses (= courses taught in high school by high school teachers for which students may obtain high school credit and simultaneous college credit through your institution) ....



c. Total number of part-time faculty (add B8a and B8b) ..................................



B9. How many part-time faculty paid by your college (reported in B8a) teach 6 or more hours per

week?



Number in B8a teaching 6 or more hours/week .....................................................



B10. Are office hours required by college policy for the part-time faculty paid by your college (reported

in B8a)?



Yes ..................



No ...................



4



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 281



C. Distance/Remote Learning Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



Definition: Distance/remote learning courses are courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and/or place and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which the majority of the course is taught online, or by computer software, or by other technologies). Exclude distance/remote courses that temporarily moved to remote due to the pandemic.



C1. Overall, how have attitudes towards online learning changed as a result of the COVID-19

experience?



More Less

favorable No change favorable



a. Faculty interest in online teaching



b. Faculty use of online tools



c. Student interest in online teaching



d. Student use of online tools



5



282 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



C2. Many colleges have conducted online instruction as a way of addressing the COVID-19

pandemic, offering online instruction either as an alternative to face-to-face instruction or as a supplement to face-to-face instruction. How is that instruction coordinated with what has normally

been called distance education? Please indicate which of the following applies to your department for each listed time period, using the following definitions.



• On-campus (face-to-face) learners—students who would be expected to attend most classes

in person.

• Remote learners—students who would be expected to attend most classes remotely.



Policy During

Prior to pandemic

pandemic (spring 2020-

(prior to spring summer Fall 2021

2020) 2021)

Yes No Yes No Yes No

a. We offer some course sections only to on-

campus (face-to-face) learners; remote

learners might be offered the same course,

but the students would not normally be in the

same section.

b. We offer some course sections only to remote

learners; on-campus (face-to-face) learners

might be offered the same course, but the

students would not normally be in the same

section.

c. We offer some “hybrid” courses to on-campus

(face-to-face) learners and remote learners in

the same section.



C3. Has your department taught any distance/remote learning courses (other than courses moved

online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic) in 2018-2021?



Yes .................. go to C4.



No ................... skip to D1.



C4. Which best characterizes the delivery format of the majority of your distance/remote learning

courses (not including courses moved online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic)? (Check one box.)



Sections are taught only online, and only asynchronously .............................................

Sections are taught only online, with an opportunity to meet synchronously online ........



Sections use a mixture of online and face-to-face sessions ...........................................

Other .............................................................................................................................



6



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 283



C. Distance/Remote Learning (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



C5. In most of your distance/remote learning courses, how and where do students take the majority of

their tests (not including courses moved online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic)? (Check one box.)



Online, not monitored ...................................................................................................

Online, but using some kind of monitoring technology ...................................................



At a monitored testing site ............................................................................................



Combination of the above ..............................................................................................



C6. Give the maximum number of hours of the weekly teaching assignment that



can be met by teaching distance/remote learning classes (prior to the COVID-



19 pandemic) as defined above.



No limit



C7. Rate the following challenges that your department faces when creating and/or offering

distance/remote learning mathematics courses. (Please check one box in each line.)



Somewhat Very

Not a of a significant

Challenge challenge challenge challenge

a. Designing appropriate assessments of student learning.

b. Maintaining academic integrity on assessments.

c. Grade inflation.

d. Building/maintaining community among faculty and

students.



e. Maintaining academic quality instruction.



f. Engaging students online.

g. Replicating active learning in a virtual environment.

h. Availability of equipment and technical support for

faculty/students.



7



284 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



D. Pathways and Instructional Strategies Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



D1. Has your mathematics department or developmental education department offered a “pathways” course sequence within the last five years?



(“Pathways” is defined to be a single course or course sequence that enables students

to complete a college-level gateway mathematics or statistics course that is aligned to

students' academic and/or career goals within one academic year.)



Yes ……………………………. Go to D2

No……………………………… Go to D3



D2. Which of the following pathways courses or course sequences have you offered within the last

five years?



Intermediate

Algebra a pre-

Implemented? requisite?

Yes No Yes No

a. Quantitative Reasoning/Quantitative

Literacy

b. Statistics

c. STEM

d. Other (specify)

_____________________________



D3. How often are each of the following instructional strategies used in courses below the level of

Calculus (courses F1-F10 in Section F) you offered for credit in Fall 2021?



At least

Almost

once a

never

week Occasionally

a. Focusing on conceptual understanding to support

the acquisition and understanding of formulas and

procedures

b. Integrating real-world applications



c. Using student-centered active learning strategies



d. Using assessments such as regular graded

homework or quizzes used to inform teaching



8



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 285



D4. How often are each of these instructional strategies used in the Introductory Statistics courses

taught in your department in Fall 2021?



At least

once a Almost

week Occasionally never

a. Focusing on conceptual understanding to support

the acquisition and understanding of formulas

and procedures

b. Integrating real-world applications



c. Using student-centered active learning strategies



d. Using assessments such as regular graded

homework or quizzes used to inform teaching



D5. Technology used in teaching Introductory Statistics could include graphing calculators, statistical

software, or online applets. How successful is your program in adopting each of the following use of technology in your Introductory Statistics (no calculus prerequisite) courses taught Fall 2021?



Very Somewhat Not

Successful Successful Successful



a. Students use technology to explore concepts



b. Instructors use technology to demonstrate

concepts



c. Students use technology to analyze data



e. Students’ ability to use technology to solve

problems is assessed



9



286 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Dual Enrollment Courses Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



• If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire system.



• Definition: We use the term “dual/concurrent-enrollment courses” to refer to

courses conducted on a high school campus by high school teachers, for which students may obtain high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit through your institution.



E1. Does your department participate in any dual-enrollment program of the type defined above?



Yes .................. go to E2.



No ................... go to Section F.



E2. Please provide the head-count enrollment for your dual-enrollment program (as defined above)

for the spring term of 2021 and for the current fall term of 2021.



Total Dual Total Dual

Enrollments Enrollments

Course

Last Term = This Term = Spring 2021 Fall 2021



a. College Algebra

b. Precalculus

c. Calculus I

d. Statistics

e. Other



E3. Does your department assign any of its own full-time or part-time faculty to teach courses in a

high school for which high school students may receive both high school and college credit through your institution?



Yes .................. go to E4.



No ................... go to Section F.



E4. In fall 2021, how many students are enrolled in the courses conducted on a high school campus

and taught by your full-time or part-time faculty (who are not employees of the high school) and through which high school students may receive both high school and college credit through your institution?



Number of students .......................



10



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 287



F. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021? You may use different titles for these courses and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name. Choose the course in the list that best matches the mathematical content of your course(s). If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire system.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or developmental/remedial

programs separate from your mathematics program or department.

• For each course that you offer, please indicate whether co-requisites are available (supports for

underprepared students so they may be placed directly into college-level courses).

• Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses. This information will be used

to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.



Offer course Co-requisite Catalog code(s) in Fall 2021 available used (use comma

Name of Course (or equivalent) Yes No Yes No to separate codes)

Developmental/Pre-College Courses

F1. Course(s) that are primarily Arithmetic/Basic Mathematics

content

F2. Course(s) that are primarily Pre-Algebra content

F3. Course(s) that are primarily Elementary Algebra (high

school level) content

F4. Course(s) that are primarily Intermediate Algebra (high

school level) content

F5. Geometry (high school level)

F6. Other developmental mathematics courses

College Algebra/Trigonometry/Precalculus

F7. College Algebra (level beyond intermediate Algebra)

F8. Trigonometry

F9. College Algebra and Trigonometry, combined

F10. Introduction to Mathematical Modeling

F11. Precalculus/Elementary Functions/Analytic Geometry

Calculus/Differential Equations/Linear Algebra

F12. Mainstream Calculus I a

F13. Mainstream Calculus IIa

F14. Mainstream Calculus III a

F15. Non-Mainstream Calculus I b

F16. Non-Mainstream Calculus II b

F17. Differential Equations

F18. Linear Algebra

Discrete Math/Statistics/Probability/Finite Math

F19. Discrete Mathematics

F20. Elementary Statistics (with or without probability) c

F21. Probability (with or without statistics) c

F22. Finite Mathematics

a Typically a trigonometry-based course for mathematics, physical sciences, and engineering majors. b Typically non-trigonometry-based, for business, life sciences, and social science majors. c Do not count the same course in both lines F20 and F21.



11



288 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



Offer course Co-requisite Catalog code(s) in Fall 2021 available used (use comma

Name of Course (or equivalent) Yes No Yes No to separate codes)

Mathematics for Liberal Arts/Quantitative Literacy

F23. Mathematics for Liberal Arts/ Math Appreciation

F24. Quantitative Literacy/Quantitative Reasoning

Mathematics Courses for Teacher Preparation

F25. Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers I

F26. Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers II

F27. Other Mathematics Courses for Teacher Preparation

Business/Technical Mathematics

F28. Business Mathematics

F29. Non-Calculus-Based Technical Mathematics

F30. Calculus-Based Technical Mathematics (transfer course)

Other Mathematics Courses

F31. Other Mathematics Courses (non-transfer)

F32. Other Mathematics Courses (transfer)



12



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 289



F. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire

• For each course code (or set of course codes) listed, please provide the requested information. Do not

include dual-enrollment sections taught in high school by high school teachers for which students receive simultaneous high school and college credit through your institution.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros



Fall 2021 only

On-campus sections Distance/remote learning

Total Total Total

Credit Total students number of students number of hours a a b enrolled sections enrolled sections

Your catalog course codes (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)



a Do not include distance/remote learning students, who are counted in column d. b Distance/remote learning courses are courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the

instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and/or place and facilitated by technology (e.g., courses in which the majority of the course is taught online either synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software or other technologies).



13



290 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F. Mathematics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



You reported a total of # sections in fall 2021, distributed by course type as shown below. For each course type, please provide the number of sections taught by part-time faculty.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros



Number of

sections taught by

Total number of

sections part-time faculty

Type of course and your applicable catalog course codes (a) (b)

Precollege level (courses F1-F6)

(course code list)

Precalculus level (courses F7-F11

(course code list)

Mainstream calculus (courses F12-F14)

(course code list)

Non-mainstream calculus (courses F15-F16)

(course code list)

Advanced level (courses F17-F19)

(course code list)

Statistics, Probability (courses F20-F21)

(course code list)

Service courses (courses F22-F28)

(course code list)

Technical mathematics (courses F29-F30)

(course code list)

Other mathematics courses (courses F31-F32)

(course code list)



14



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 291



e

ir

a

n

n

o

s le ti

u b e

s t c Q a

ti g



a in m l e wua th llo aq o M f e e g eld h lle o tou C teh r a le s e p r le-Ye o m bth w ta T coO is ), _ th _ _ in _ d _ e ( 2 list B cs n n lty ti eo i by a eti d cu y m e gr fa eca rt ult eu o ll th c Dd p a a . t E e f s M r m Fa l o e l) e e a ta st c igh ti to a e sy-Tim H b ll re b ti a Th s n Fu cs e. ld of ti r e e of s re e 15 o r Fi ti th eg ta ve r S a d o jor e a f l ed umbe rt M n rn o N o a p e se e r o st e ld h s t he a cs ie g ti ig le F a in ). h p t d , m 3 u e r’s e m cl jec e g e th n a a b b (i u p M y em n syst S o s m ult ( y u c 2 p b a lty B m l, f e cu n e i ca fa d i-im e ev e lt-t ch rt u L a o gre ull p m al e f f e n re a D nt o o t o te r’s r a t e s lo ti ra r’s ne g b e re e n o e a a ca m ct st lo ch u igh u rm e e o a a d e n H D M b th e B . . E p u g th a b c. e y in , yo lt th w If u r o __ _ Fo sh _ ac •

F 1.

G. G



292 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



e

a e ir



s te e ulep Q s c o t ti n h n

ti m

a co le

m , b

th y) e ta



a rt is M a e g p th d lle o ir in C h r a ted e a r y -Y liste o b wth T lty idO a cu fa p e ll s o f a h t l o d n ta cs a to e n ti e by eo e a yti g h gr m T lle e eca ultu o . c D th c ed a t a r re . E F s u M e m e eg yo e d im y st igh d-T b e H sy rt id rn a re a a ti p P ld of e n cs e ti st se e of s o e e r Fi 16 ti h h th ta t ig r jor g S h ) ). o a in t. f umbe d 4 M r’s rt n u e N e o g cl b p co a n e m ( (i p r e ) n e ld _ m o s _ ( a cs ie ti _ lty c le F a _ 8 p t _ cu , m B ( e n c fa m jec i e th 8 d a b ch B e a u M n rt syst i f e o S s d p y o u e a re p rt b r o re m l, e p e a b ca re e m i-e ev y h u lt t u L g n ult gre e m al c in e h a n w ,t a D f o o t o te r’s __ t s lo ti ra r’s sh _ g e ime o e e _ n ca le-t l ct st lo ch b u a igh rt e o a a a u H d a t D M q b B . . E p g u e a b c. e y in ld w yo lt th u If u r o llo • Fo fo sh ac

F 2.

G. G



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 293



e

ir

n ed a

n rt

o

s

e po ti



Q r s c u e

ti re



th d f ee a rt m i igu e a n M th

e ,



e e rt u cu c a a ua a-Y8 p ac ra o q F w e f y/ B e e T d e it ldm m ico cs C e _ y y . _lt r m lt l a lle n repo __ o g t. . ti im u n-t -Ti h Fr a ho rt rt m a et s a y e p d P lt n y th e a u a c th r ult a r c m f o de a y R e lt f n F U u d e im c n g O-t of 40 t a a rt r Y 2 a Fe ou in p eg b h B f m 2A m it n a i e l o umbe Ti ta B w



e st d N ta ll-e a e m o u rt do b t F sy g o e t Fr po re t in h n ti d re iv T e 0 n ) . n4 re g a e e e 17 e v le d a b B2 rm e th si e a n e g r n l i t P A n o o n g f e c o in rt iv o re w se g p a o y e t llo re a it r th u fo ry ry ry ry e th g e ig nt s a a a a s in h f a n d t e in n in n in n in n Ide e e e e e le u e th r -b-b-b-b p rse l n m e n n m n n m n n m n n m , u cl let o n a e o o e o o e o o e o o e o p m c (i u ac nd M W N M W N M W N M W N M W e m q y e R o cs lt e ti G u c ld ty/ syst a ), e s nd v m ac ou ti ici u e f ge h a a n p e th lle s m a o y N o th tus im c lt n n rt ca m -t r u a ta ca e ic E i- c e ll S u n d lt u a sk ri ou l e P a u th f f la , ic) r y e ia an y A m n isp n m o nt c m , A a f e b a H a ti n ca er n p o ta n id ri r ll- /R ia a is d a ic) t a a e e d ic n g fu ic d n m th -H p f fr a en n rm I o n e e o A p lo n -A r o G h se l thn r is e p n o n t o E y e ta . ca o H a , ( b e th o ri n - c n e b d : u th ( t 8a e u a ck n xi it y s r a e o cl B m si la e ica h yo o h lt A A B (n M R W on If In F B8 T in u . . . . . ti 1 2 3 4 5 ac • • • •

F truc

H. Ins



294 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



18



ry ry ry

in n in n in e a a a



n m n n n n o o e o e oo N-b -b -b m e

M W N M W N



r

e

d

n

a



c e Isl r

fi th

ci o



n wo iia ank wt a P o , n a r



ve tu ti ata NS . . 6 H ns o

7



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 295



e

ir

a

n

n

o

ti

s

e

u

Q

s

c

ti

a

m

e

th

a

M

e

g



-Y w ga lo o e p w ry T b n o s ( C 3 r . ae e lle ). o e 2 ri -bina o B g non te iN d e ca rt e o g p y a re e ult ) c th a f ve n a Fe o e h . l of c n

a r om m



o d e 2 19 u e B h cl th n w n r i n y (i o d e lt y f e M rt rt cu ult o o fa c p p f a e re o f r r r e e e e s b b a im le g o sy umbe h n tN re lo g ti e n in . b n st se i e o e W



le m m-tu p u .... , ull n n ....... f m e e h e th nt l ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ t e a g n syst u in a q s w u e o rm p ld m u sh pe o le ca h b i- s a lt d t u er................................ g m in ................................ listve e 0 w a y fi th 3 o o lt llo r ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................d t ro ly o e 4 9 4 9 4 9 4 9n g cu f n P n d-3-3-4-4-5-5-6-6 a o e fa n lo0 e h r l U 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 657 e e g t ta d b te o A si u t le n y e ge p o yo A a. b. c. d. e. f. g. h. i.j. lt m C If Th u o C ac • • • F

.

I. I1



296 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



J. Faculty Employment and Mobility Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



• If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire system.



J1. How many of the permanent full-time faculty members you reported in B2 (on page 3)

were newly appointed to a permanent full-time position this year (2021–2022)?



Number of faculty newly appointed on a permanent full-time position this year (2021-2022)?



if 0 go to J3.



if 1 or more go to J2.



J2. Of the faculty members counted in J1, how many had the following as their main activity in the

academic year preceding their appointment? Report only one main activity per person. The total in J2 should equal , the number reported in J1 above.



a. Attending graduate school .........................................................................



b. Teaching in a four-year college or university .............................................



c. Teaching in another two-year college .......................................................



d. Teaching in a secondary school ...............................................................



e. Part-time or full-time temporary employment by your college ....................



f. Nonacademic employment .......................................................................



g. Unemployed .............................................................................................



h. Status unknown ........................................................................................



J3. How many of your faculty who were permanent full-time faculty in the previous

year (2020-2021) are no longer part of your permanent full-time faculty? ..................................................................................................................



20



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 297



J. Faculty Employment and Mobility (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



J4. For each newly appointed permanent full-time faculty member reported in J1, give the following

data. Copy this page to add more faculty if necessary. For each new hire, check one box in each column.



Gender Ethnicity/Race Highest Degree Earned Identity

New Hire #1 Man ......... Am Indian ....... Bachelor’s ..........

Woman ..... Asian ............. Master’s ............ Other ........ Black ................ Doctorate ..........

Hispanic ..........

White .............

Other ..............

New Hire #2 Man ......... Am Indian ....... Bachelor’s ..........

Woman ..... Asian ............. Master’s ............ Other ........ Black ................ Doctorate ..........

Hispanic ..........

White .............

Other ..............

New Hire #3 Man ......... Am Indian ....... Bachelor’s ..........

Woman ..... Asian ............. Master’s ............ Other ........ Black ................ Doctorate ..........

Hispanic ..........

White .............

Other ..............

New Hire #4 Man ......... Am Indian ....... Bachelor’s ..........

Woman ..... Asian ............. Master’s ............ Other ........ Black ................ Doctorate ..........

Hispanic ..........

White .............

Other ..............

New Hire #5 Man ......... Am Indian ....... Bachelor’s ..........

Woman ..... Asian ............. Master’s ............ Other ........ Black ................ Doctorate ..........

Hispanic ..........

White .............

Other ..............

New Hire #6 Man ......... Am Indian ....... Bachelor’s ..........

Woman ..... Asian ............. Master’s ............ Other ........ Black ................ Doctorate ..........

Hispanic ..........

White .............

Other ..............



21



298 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



K Professional Activities and Evaluation of Faculty Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



K1. Is professional development required of your faculty?



Yes No



a. Permanent full-time .....................................................................

b. Part-time ......................................................................................



K2. In general, how frequently are mathematics faculty evaluated? (Check one in each row.)



At least

At least once every Not

once a year other year Occasionally Never applicable

a. Full-time (tenured) .....

b. Full-time (non-tenured)

c. Part-time ....................



K3. Check all evaluation methods that are used for part-time faculty paid by your college (reported in

B8(a)) and for permanent full-time faculty (reported in B2). (Check yes or no for both part-time and full-time faculty on each line.)



Full-Time Part-Time Faculty in Faculty in

Evaluation Mode B2 B8a

Yes No Yes No

a. Observation of classes by other faculty members or

department chair .................................................................

b. Observation of classes by division head (if different from chair) or

other administrator .......................................................................

c. Evaluation forms completed by students .............................

d. Evaluation of written course material such as lesson plans,

syllabi, or exams..................................................................

e. Self-evaluation such as teaching portfolios ..........................

f. Written peer evaluations ..............................................................

g. Other (specify) .............................................................................



22



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 299



Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire

L. Academic Support and Enrichment Opportunities for Students



• If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire system.



L1. Is some form of placement process in mathematics required for first-time enrollees?



Yes .................. go to L2



No ................... go to L3.



L2. If placement is required, check all the components/criteria that would be considered.



a. Placement Test alone

b. Self-placement

c. Counseling/advisement

d. Scores on State test

e. High School record

f. ACT/SAT

g. Scores on national assessment



L3. Does your college/department periodically assess the effectiveness of the mathematics

placement program?



Yes ..................



No ...................



L4. Check all opportunities available to your mathematics students. (Please check one box in each

line.)



Yes No

a. Mathematics club .........................................................................



b. Special mathematics programs to encourage women .................



c. Special mathematics programs to encourage minorities ..............

d. Special mathematics lectures/colloquia not part of a mathematics

club ..............................................................................................

e. Mathematics outreach opportunities in local K –12 schools ..........

f. Opportunities to participate in undergraduate research in

mathematics ................................................................................

g. Independent study opportunities in mathematics ........................



h. Assigned faculty advisors in mathematics ....................................



i. Other (specify) .............................................................................



23



300 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



M. Mathematics Preparation of K –12 Teachers Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



• If you belong to a multi-campus system, please report for the entire system.



M1. Does your department have any mathematics courses or programs that lead to obtaining

credentials to teach mathematics in public elementary schools (any license that includes grades K-5) in your state?



Yes ......................................................... If yes, go to M2

No .......................................................... If no, go to M3.



M2. Does your department have a faculty member assigned to coordinate mathematics program

courses for pre-service elementary school teachers?



Yes ......................................................

No .......................................................



M3. Does your department have any mathematics courses or programs that lead to obtaining

credentials to teach mathematics in public middle schools (any license that includes grades 6-8) in your state?



Yes, and the program has different requirements from those for

teaching mathematics at the elementary or high school levels........... If yes, go to M4.



Yes, but the program is identical to that for either the high school

mathematics teacher preparation program or the elementary

mathematics teacher preparation program. ....................................... If yes, go to M4.



No ..................................................................................................... If no, go to M5.



M4. Does your department have a faculty member assigned to coordinate mathematics courses or

programs for pre-service middle school teachers?



Yes ........................................................

No .........................................................



M5. Does your department have any mathematics courses or programs that leads to obtaining

credentials to teach mathematics in public high schools (any license that includes grades 9-12) in your state?



Yes ......................................................... If yes, go to M6

No .......................................................... If no, go to M7.



M6. Does your department have a faculty member assigned to coordinate mathematics courses or

programs for pre-service secondary school teachers?



Yes ...................................................



No ....................................................



24



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 301



M. Mathematics Preparation of K –12 Teachers (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



M7. Other than the courses “Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers I, II, and other

Mathematics courses for Teacher Preparation ” reported on lines F23, F24, and F25, do you designate any sections of your other mathematics program courses as “especially designed for pre-service elementary school teachers”?



Yes .........................................................



No ..........................................................



M8. Which of the following groups can meet their entire mathematics course or licensure

requirement for teaching via an organized program in your department? Consider “pre- service” and “career switchers” as distinct categories. “Career switchers” usually are post- baccalaureate older adults returning for teaching licensure after a non-teaching career and often under state-approved special licensure rules. (Check one on each row.)



Yes No



a. Pre-service elementary school teachers ......................................

b. Pre-service middle school teachers .............................................



c. Pre-service secondary school teachers ........................................



d. In-service elementary school teachers .........................................

e. In-service middle school teachers ................................................



f. In-service secondary school teachers ..........................................



g. Career switchers moving to elementary school teaching ..............

h. Career switchers moving to middle school teaching ......................



i. Career switchers moving to secondary school teaching ................



M9. Does your institution offer pedagogical courses in mathematics for teacher licensure for any of

the three grade levels listed below? (Check all that apply.)



Grades PK-5 ............................................



Grades 6-8 ...............................................

Grades 9-12 ..............................................



If any or all are checked, Go to M10



No ............................................................. go to N1



M10. Where are the pedagogical courses in mathematics for teacher licensure taught?



Yes No



a. In the mathematics department ................................................



b. Elsewhere in the institution .......................................................



25



302 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



N. Issues of Professional Concern Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



N1. Below are concerns often cited by two-year college mathematics departments. Please read each

item carefully and check the box in each row that best reflects your view.



Minor or Somewhat

no of a Major

concern concern concern

for us for us for us

a. Faculty staying current regarding

effective teaching strategies ............

b. Courses taken for both high school

and college credit) ............................



c. Staffing statistics courses ................

d. Unrealistic student understanding of

the demands of college work ............

e. Part-time faculty teach too many

courses ...........................................



f. Faculty salaries too low ...................



g. Class sizes too large .......................



h. Low student motivation ....................

i. Too many students needing

remediation .....................................

j. Successful progress of students

through developmental courses to

more advanced mathematics

courses is too low ............................

k. Student success rate in transfer-

level math courses is too low ...........

l. Too few students who intend to

transfer actually do transfer .............

m. Inadequate travel funds for faculty ..

n. Learning disabilities are not

adequately supported ......................

o. Inadequate classroom facilities for

teaching with technology .................

p. Inadequate classroom facilities for

teaching with active learning ............

q. Inadequate computer facilities for

part-time faculty use ........................

r. Inadequate computer facilities for

student use ......................................



26



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 303



N. Issues of Professional Concern (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



N1. Continued



Minor or Somewhat

No of a Major

problem problem problem

for us for us for us



s. Classroom and other duties make it

difficult for faculty to engage in

professional development ................

t. Curriculum alignment between high

schools and college .........................

u. Lack of curricular flexibility because

of transfer requirements ..................

v. Other barriers that inhibit curricular

changes ...........................................

w. Maintaining high and consistent

expectations of students across

different sections of the same

course .............................................



x. High cost of textbooks .....................

y. Lack of flexibility in curricular

redesign ..........................................

z. Maintaining common standards

between distance/remote learning

courses and related courses ............



27



304 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



N. Issues of Professional Concern (cont.) Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



N2. Many departments today use a spectrum of program assessment methods. Please check all that

apply to your department’s program assessment efforts during the last six years.



Yes No



a. A review of our mathematics program was conducted that

included one or more reviewers from outside our institution ......



b. Students in our mathematics program were asked to comment

on and suggest changes in the program .....................................



c. Other departments at our institution were invited to comment on

the preparation that their students received in our courses .........

d. Data on students’ progress in subsequent mathematics courses

were gathered and analyzed ......................................................

e. Data on the placement system for first-year students were

analyzed for effectiveness ..........................................................

f. Department’s program assessment activities led to changes in

the mathematics program ..........................................................

g. A process is in place to analyze data and assess achievement

of student learning outcomes ......................................................



28



Appendix VII. Two-Year Mathematics Questionnaire 305



N3. Please indicate the extent to which the following activities have taken place in the past year in

your department in response to increased national attention to equity, diversity, and inclusion issues (here the term “demographic” includes race, ethnicity, gender, disability status, and other characteristics of individuals).



None Some A lot

a. Faculty discussion designed to increase

awareness of equity, diversity, and inclusion

issues

b. Student discussion designed to increase

awareness of equity, diversity, and inclusion

issues

c. Program or policy changes to affect the

demographic balance of faculty in the

mathematical sciences.

d. Program or policy changes to affect the

demographic balance of undergraduate

students in mathematical sciences.



e. Consideration of existing or new programs

to assist underrepresented groups and/or at-

risk students in the mathematical sciences.



g. Please describe any other steps your department or institution has taken in the past year that deal

with equity, diversity, and inclusion as they pertain to the study of and employment in the mathematical sciences.



___________________________________________________________________________________



29



306 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



O. Comments and Suggestions Two-Year College Mathematics Questionnaire



If you found some question(s) difficult to interpret or answer, please let us know. We welcome suggestions to improve future surveys (e.g., CBMS 2025).



Comments: __________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



Thank you for completing this questionnaire. We know it was a time-

consuming process and we hope that the resulting survey report,

which we hope to publish in spring 2023, will be of use to you and

your department.



Please keep a copy of your responses to this questionnaire in case

questions arise.



30

Appendix VIII



Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire





307

308 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



General Information Statistics Questionnaire-



As part of a random sample, your department has been chosen to participate in the NSF-funded CBMS2021 National Survey of Undergraduate Mathematical Sciences Programs. The presidents of all U.S. mathematical sciences organizations have endorsed it and ask for your cooperation. We assure you that no individual departmental data, except the names of responding departments, will be released.



This survey provides data about the nation's undergraduate mathematical and statistical effort that is available from no other source. You can see the results of a similar survey fielded six years ago by going to www.ams.org/cbms, where the CBMS 2015 report is available online.



All departments in this survey are in universities and colleges that offer at least a bachelor’s degree. They may or may not offer an undergraduate major in statistics. Most of the statistics departments in our random sample also offer higher degrees in statistical sciences.



We have classified your department as belonging to a university or four-year college. If this is not correct, please contact Ellen Kirkman, Survey Director, at 336-758-5351 or at Kirkman@wfu.edu.



Please report on undergraduate programs in the statistical sciences (including probability) that are under the direction of your department. Do not include data for other departments or for branches or campuses of your institution that are budgetarily separate from your own. Also, if your department is broader than just statistics (e.g., Department of Statistics and Computer Science or Statistics and Operations Research), please report on all the courses offered by your department.



This survey may be completed either online or using a hard-copy questionnaire. We recommend using the online system because it will do some of the work for you; e.g., it will automatically skip those questions that are not applicable (based on the response you give), gray out portions of questions that do not apply, remind you of previous responses, and provide definitions when you let your cursor hover over certain highlighted words.



If you have any questions while filling out this survey form, please call the Survey Director, Ellen Kirkman, at 336-758-5351 or contact her by e-mail at Kirkman@wfu.edu. For help with the online questionnaire, call Westat at 855-770-0558 or send an email to cbms2021@westat.com.



Please complete the questionnaire by October 29, 2021 online or by mailing a hard copy to:

CBMS Survey

Westat

1600 Research Boulevard, RB 3103

Rockville, MD 20850-312

Please retain a copy of your responses to this questionnaire in case questions arise.



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 309



A. General Information



A1. Name of your Institution: _________________________________________________________



A2. Name of your Department: ________________________________________________________



A3. We have classified your department as being part of a university or four-year college. Do you

agree?



Yes ................ If Yes, go to A4 below.



No ................. If No, please call Ellen Kirkman, Survey Director,

at 336-758-5351



A4. If your college or university does not recognize tenure, check this box.



A5. Contact person in your department:



A6. Contact person's e-mail address:



A7. Contact person's phone number

( )

including area code:



A8. Contact person’s mailing address:



a. Street ..............................



b. Street2.............................



c. City ..................................



d. State ..................................................................................



e. Zip code ............................................................................



1



310 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



B. Dual-Enrollment Courses Statistics Questionnaire



Definition: We use the term dual (or concurrent) enrollment courses to refer to courses taught in a high school by high school teachers, for which high school students may obtain high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit through your institution.



B1. Does your department participate in any dual enrollment programs of this type?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to B2.



No ................... If No, go to B3.



B2. Please complete the following table giving the number of students enrolled in your dual enrollment

program (as defined above) for the previous term (spring 2021) and the current fall term of 2021. These enrollments should NOT be included in subsequent sections.



Total Dual

Enrollments

Last Term= This Term=

Course Spring 2021 Fall 2021

a. Statistics .......................



B3. Does your department assign any of its own full-time or part-time faculty to teach courses

conducted on a high school campus for which high school students may receive both high school and college credit (through your institution)?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to B4.



No ................... If No, go to C1.



B4. In fall 2021, how many students are enrolled in the courses taught in a high school by your full-

time or part-time faculty and through which high school students may receive both high school and college credit (through your institution)? (Include these enrollments in subsequent sections).



Number of students.............................



2



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 311



C. Distance/ remote learning Statistics Questionnaire



Definition: Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which half or more of the course is taught online, either synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies). Include only distance/remote learning courses offered in normal practice, not courses that became distance/remote due to the COVID-19 pandemic.



C1. Overall, how have attitudes towards online learning changed as a result of the COVID-19

experience?



More Less

favorable No change favorable



a. Faculty interest in online teaching



b. Faculty use of online tools



c. Student interest in online teaching



d. Student use of online tools



3



312 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



C2. Many colleges have conducted online instruction as a way of addressing the COVID-19

pandemic, offering online instruction either as an alternative to face-to-face instruction or as a supplement to face-to-face instruction. How is that instruction coordinated with what has normally been called distance education? Please indicate which of the following applies to your department for each listed time period, using the following definitions.



• On-campus (face-to-face) learners—students who would be expected to attend most classes

in person.

• Remote learners—students who would be expected to attend most classes remotely.



During

Prior to pandemic

Policy pandemic (prior (spring 2020-

to spring 2020) summer 2021) Fall 2021

Yes No Yes No Yes No



a. We offer some course sections only to on-

campus (face-to-face) learners; remote

learners might be offered the same course,

but the students would not normally be in the

same section.

b. We offer some course sections only to remote

learners; on-campus (face-to-face) learners

might be offered the same course, but the

students would not normally be in the same

section.

c. We offer some “hybrid” courses to on-campus

(face-to-face) learners and remote learners in

the same section.



C3. Has your department taught any distance/remote learning course (other than courses moved

online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic) within the calendar years 2018-2021?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to C4.



No ................... If No, skip to section D.



4



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 313



C4. Which best characterizes the format/structure of the majority of your distance/remote learning

courses (not including courses moved online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic)? (Choose one response.)



Sections are taught only online, and only asynchronously .............................................

Sections are taught only online, with an opportunity to meet synchronously online ........

Sections use a mixture of online and face-to-face sessions ...........................................

Other .............................................................................................................................



C5. In most of your distance/remote learning courses, how are the majority of the tests administered

(not including courses moved online in response to the COVID-19 pandemic)? (Choose one response.)



Online, not monitored ....................................................................................................

Online, but using some kind of monitoring technology ...................................................

At a monitored testing site .............................................................................................

Combination of monitoring methods ..............................................................................



C6. Rate the following challenges that your department faces when creating and/or offering

distance/remote learning statistics courses. (Please check one box in each line.)



Somewhat Very

Challenge Not a of a significant

challenge challenge challenge



a. Designing appropriate assessments of student learning.



b. Maintaining academic integrity on assessments.

c. Grade inflation.

d. Building/maintaining community among faculty and

students.

e. Maintaining academic quality instruction.



f. Engaging students online.

g. Replicating active learning in a virtual environment.

h. Availability of equipment and technical support for

faculty/students.



5



314 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



D. Faculty Profile (Fall 2021) Statistics Questionnaire



Please indicate whether the following types of faculty are actively teaching one or more courses in fall 2021.



Definitions



• Full-time faculty. Faculty who are full-time employees in the institution and more than

halftime in the department. For example, if a tenured computer science professor with a joint appointment in your department teaches a total of two courses in fall 2021, with exactly one being in your department (i.e., statistics is 50% of the fall teaching assignment), then that person would be counted as part-time in your department.



Teach in Fall 2021

Faculty Type

Yes No

D1. Full-time faculty who are more than halftime in your department



a. Tenured or tenure-eligible, or permanent (if your institution does

not recognize tenure) faculty ...........................................................

b. Other full-time faculty (e.g., permanent faculty only if your

institution also has tenured or tenure-eligible faculty, faculty with

renewable positions such as teaching professionals,

postdoctoral faculty, and visiting faculty) .........................................

D2. Part-time faculty (those who are halftime or less in your department) ....



D3. Graduate teaching assistant(s) who teach courses independently

(not counting the teaching of recitation sessions) .................................



6



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 315



E. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) Statistics Questionnaire



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or developmental/remedial

programs separate from your statistics program or department.

• Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses taught in Fall 2021.

This information will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row. • If your department is broader than just statistics (e.g., Department of Statistics and Computer

Science or Statistics and Operations Research), please use E24 to report on the courses outside of probability and statistics.

• Introductory Statistics classes. You will be asked to list separately Introductory Statistics classes

taught in a large lecture format (with recitation/problem/laboratory sections) and, sections that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly scheduled time (and are not divided into recitation sections). For example, you will be asked about large lecture courses (E1-1 column). Please treat any large class that is sometimes broken up into smaller units as a “lecture/recitation” class (even if there is no lecture); if neither the lecture/recitation or individual class format seems an appropriate de scription of the enrollment, enter the enrollment under “other.”



Catalog code(s) used

for courses offered Fall

Taught in 2021 (not for courses Fall 2021 offered Spring 2022 or

Name of Course (or equivalent)

previous academic

year) (use comma to

separate codes)



Statistics



INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS (no calculus prerequisite; designed for non-majors/minors [General Education Courses] but may be taken by major/minors)



E1-1. Lecture with separately scheduled recitation/problem/laboratory sessions

E1-2. Individual sections not in E1-1, that meet as a class with an instructor at a regularly

scheduled time

E1-3. Other sections not listed above

INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS (calculus prerequisite)

E2-1. Lecture with separately scheduled recitation/problem/laboratory sessions

E2-2. Individual sections not in E2-1,that meet as a class with an instructor at a

regularly scheduled time

E2-3. Sections not listed above

1 Distance/remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which the majority of the course is taught online either synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).

2 For E1 and E2, enter course identifiers that are sufficiently distinct to separate courses with recitation sessions, courses that meet as a class, and other sections.

7



316 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



Catalog code(s)

used for courses

offered Fall 2021

(not for courses

Name of Course (or equivalent) Taught in offered Spring

Fall 2021 2022 or previous

academic year)

(use comma to

separate codes)



OTHER INTRODUCTORY STATISTICS courses

E3. Statistics for pre-service elementary and/or middle grade teachers

E4. Statistics for pre-service secondary school teachers

E5. Intermediate statistics (non-calculus)

E6. Other introductory level Probability or Statistics courses designed for

non-majors/minors



8



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 317



Which of the following courses are taught in your department in Fall 2021, will be taught in Spring 2022, or were taught at any time in 2020-21? You may use different titles for these courses, and may have multiple courses that match a particular course name.



• Enter an X in each applicable box.

• Do not include courses taught in other departments, learning centers, or developmental/remedial

programs separate from your statistics program or department.

• Please also indicate which catalog codes are used to identify those courses taught in Fall 2021.

This information will be used to generate a reduced course list suitable for your department so reporting on enrollments will be easier.

• Make sure that no course is reported in more than one row. • If your department is broader than just statistics (e.g., Department of Statistics and Computer

Science or Statistics and Operations Research), please use E24 to report on the courses outside of probability and statistics.



Catalog

code(s) used

for courses

offered Fall

2021 (not for

courses

offered

Name of Course (or equivalent) Spring 2022

or previous

Taught in Will be Taught Offer as academic Fall 2021 taught in during distance/ year) (use

Spring academic remote comma to

2022 year 2020- learning separate

21 1 course codes)

(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

INTERMEDIATE AND ADVANCED LEVEL

E7. Combined Probability Statistics (calculus

prerequisite)

E8. Probability (calculus prerequisite)

E9. Mathematical Statistics (calculus

prerequisite)

E10. Stochastic Processes

E11. Data Science/Analytics/Statistical Learning

E12. Design Analysis of Experiments

(ANOVA)

E13. Applied Regression

E14. Linear Models I



9



318 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E15. Linear Models II

E16. Biostatistics

E17. Nonparametric Statistics

E18. Categorical Data Analysis

E19. Sample Survey Design Analysis

E20. Statistical Computing or Software

E21. Bayesian Statistics

E22. Statistical Consulting

E23. Senior Seminar/Capstone

E24. All other upper level Probability Statistics

related courses

1 Distance/ remote learning courses are those courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which the majority of the course is taught online, or by computer software, or by other technologies).



10



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 319



E. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) Statistics Questionnaire



In the next several pages you will enter data about courses your department is teaching. For each course that is taught, you will be asked to enter the fall 2021 enrollment and the number of sections of the course. Depending upon what you indicated above, you will be asked about distance/ remote learning enrollment.



The following instructions apply throughout Section E (pages 10-12).



• Courses, sections, and sessions. In this questionnaire, “course” is used to refer to the topic

area (e.g., Stochastic Processes or Biostatistics). You may have multiple faculty teaching the same course in the same term but at different times or locations; these divisions of the topic area into separate instances of teaching are called sections. Within a section, you may have times when the students are divided into laboratory or recitation sessions; these are counted as recitation sessions, not as separate sections.

• Below please do not treat recitation sessions as separate sections. Instead, please treat both

the lecture component and any associated recitation sessions as a single section.

• If a course is cross-listed in both statistics and another department (such as mathematics,

psychology, or engineering), count all students, regardless of how the course is listed on the students’ transcripts.

• Do not fill in any shaded boxes.

• Any unshaded box that is left blank will be interpreted as reporting a count of zero. • Except where specifically stated to the contrary, the tables in Section E deal with enrollments

in fall term 2021.



11



320 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



E25. Please enter the total fall 2021 enrollments, number of sections, and recitation sections below, as

indicated.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as zeros



Total fall 2021 Total fall 2021 Number of Total

distance/ enrollment sections number of

remote NOT in corre- recitation/

education distance/ sponding problem/

enrollments1 remote to column laboratory

education and (b) 3 sections4 (where

NOT dual applicable)

(a) enrollments2 (c) (d)

Your catalog course codes (b)



1Courses offered by your institution for credit, in which half or more of the instruction occurs with the instructor and the students separated by time and /or place, and facilitated by technology (e.g. courses in which half or more of the course is taught online, synchronously or asynchronously, or by computer software, or by other technologies).

2Do not include any dual enrollment courses, i.e., courses taught in a high school by a high school instructor for which high school students may obtain both high school credit and, simultaneously, college credit through your institution. 3Report a calculus class along with its recitation/problem/laboratory sessions as one section. 4Example: suppose your department offers four 100-student sections of a course and that each is divided into five student discussion sessions that meet separately from the lectures. Report 4*5=20 recitation/problem/laboratory sessions associated with the course, even if each discussion meets several times per week.



12



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 321



E. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



E26. You reported a total of # sections in fall 2021, distributed by course type as shown below. For each

course type, please provide the number of sections taught by tenured or tenure-eligible faculty, other full-time faculty, part-time faculty, and graduate teaching assistants.



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as are taught by: Of the number in column (a), how many sections zeros 1 Full-time faculty Part-time Graduate

Faculty Teaching

Total Tenured or Other 2 Assistants

number of Tenure- Full-time

sections eligible, Faculty

Type of course and your applicable Faculty

catalog course codes (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

E26a. Introductory Statistics (no calculus

prerequisite) —Lecture with

separate recitation

(course code list)

E26b. Introductory Statistics (no calculus

prerequisite) —Sections that meet

as a class

(course code list)

E26c. Introductory Statistics (no calculus

prerequisite) —Other sections

(course code list)

E26d. Introductory Statistics (calculus

prerequisite) (not for majors) —

Lecture with separate recitation

(course code list)

E26e. Introductory Statistics (calculus

prerequisite) (not for majors) —

Sections that meet as a class

(course code list)

1 If your institution does not recognize tenure, report sections taught by your permanent full-time faculty in column (b) and sections taught by other full-time faculty in column (c). If your institution does recognize tenure but has faculty with renewable contracts, report these faculty as other full-time faculty (column c). Full-time faculty teaching in your department and holding joint appointments with other departments should be counted in column (b) if they are tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent (if your institution does not recognize tenure) in your department. Faculty who are not tenured, tenure-eligible, or permanent in your department should be counted in column (d) if their fall 2021 teaching in your department is less than or equal to 50% of their total fall teaching assignment, and they should be reported in column (c) otherwise. (Example: If a tenured computer science professor with a joint appointment in your department teaches a total of two courses in fall 2021, with exactly one being in your department and hence statistics comprised 50% of the fall teaching assignment, then that person would be counted as parttime in your department.)

2 Report a section of a course as being taught by a graduate teaching assistant (GTA) if and only if that section is taught independently by the GTA, i.e., when it is the GTA's own course and the GTA is the instructor of record.



13



322 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



E. Probability and Statistics Courses (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



◆ Cells left blank will be interpreted as are taught by: Of the number in column (a), how many sections zeros 1 Full-time faculty Part-time Graduate

Faculty Teaching

Total Tenured or Other 2 Assistants

number of Tenure- Full-time

sections eligible, Faculty

Type of course and your applicable Faculty

catalog course codes (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)

E26f. Introductory Statistics (calculus

prerequisite) (not for majors) —

Other sections

(course code list)



E26g. Statistics for Pre-service Teachers



(course code list)



E26h. Intermediate statistics (non-calculus)



(course code list)



E26i. Other introductory level Statistics



(course code list)



E26j. Advanced Undergraduate Level



(course code list)



14



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 323



F. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) Statistics Questionnaire



If you do not offer a major in statistics, check here and go to F5. Otherwise go to F1.



F1. Report the total number of your departmental majors who received their bachelor’s degrees

between July 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021. Include joint majors and double majors. 1



Number of majors receiving degrees.............................



F2. Of the undergraduate degrees described in F1, please report the number who majored in each of

the following categories. Each student should be reported only once. Include all double and joint majors 1 in your totals. Use the Other Major category for a major in your department who does not fit into one of the listed categories.



Area of Major Men Women Nonbinary



a. Statistics .....................................................................



b. Biostatistics ................................................................



c. Actuarial Science ........................................................



d. Data Science ..............................................................



e. Joint 1 Statistics and with Computer Science ...............



f. Joint1 Statistics and with Mathematics .........................



g. Other Mathematics Majors ..........................................



h. Statistics Education



i. Other Majors



1 A “double major” is a student who completes the degree requirements of two separate majors, one in statistics and one in another program or department. A “joint major” is a student who completes a single major in your department that integrates courses from statistics and some other program or department and typically requires fewer credit hours that the sum of the credit hours required by the separate majors.



15



324 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



F3. To what extent must majors in your department complete the following? Check one box in each

row.



Required of Required of some Not required

all majors but not all majors of any major

a. Calculus I ..................................................

b. Calculus II .................................................

c. Multivariable Calculus ...............................

d. Linear Algebra/Matrix Theory ....................

e. At least one computer science course .......

f. At least one applied mathematics course

(not including a, b, c, d above) ...................

g. A capstone experience (e.g., a senior

project, a senior thesis, a senior seminar,

or an internship) ........................................

h. An exit exam (written or oral) ....................

i. At least one upper level Probability course

j. At least one upper-level Mathematical

Statistics course ........................................

k At least one applied statistics course .........

l. At least one upper-level Linear Models

course .......................................................

m. A Bayesian Inference course .....................



F4. Give your best estimate of the percentage of your department’s graduating majors from the

previous academic year 2020-2021 (reported in I1) in each of the following categories. Please make the totals add to 100 percent.



a. Who went into pre-college teaching ................................................................ %



b. Who went to graduate school in the statistical sciences ................................... %

c. Who went to professional school or to graduate school outside of the

%

statistical sciences ...........................................................................................

d. Who took jobs in business, industry, government, etc. ..................................... %



e. Who had other post-graduation plans known to the department ...................... %



f. Whose plans are not known to the department ............................................... %



16



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 325



F. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



F5. Many departments today use a spectrum of program-assessment methods. Please indicate

whether each of the following apply to your departme nt’s undergraduate program-assessment efforts during the last six years.



Yes No

a. We conducted a review of our undergraduate program that

included one or more reviewers from outside of our institution .............

b. We asked graduates of our undergraduate program to comment

on and suggest changes in our undergraduate program ......................

c. Other departments at our institution were invited to comment on

the preparation that their students received in our courses ..................

d. Data on our students’ progress in subsequent statistics courses

were gathered and analyzed ...............................................................

e. We have developed a set of student learning outcomes for our

program ...............................................................................................

f. We have assessed student learning objectives in courses

required in our major ............................................................................

g. We have a placement system for first-year students and we

gathered and analyzed data on its effectiveness .................................

h. Our department’s program assessment activities led to changes

in our undergraduate program .............................................................



17



326 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



F6. Please indicate the extent to which the following activities have taken place in the past year in your department in response to increased national attention to equity, diversity, and inclusion issues (here the term “demographic” includes race, ethnicity, gender, disability status, and other characteristics of individuals).



None Some A lot Not applicable

a. Faculty discussion designed to

increase awareness of equity,

diversity, and inclusion issues

b. Student discussion designed

to increase awareness of

equity, diversity, and inclusion

issues

c. Program or policy changes to

affect the demographic

balance of faculty in the

mathematical sciences.

d. Program or policy changes to

affect the demographic

balance of undergraduate

students in mathematical

sciences.

e. Program or policy changes

intended to affect the

demographic balance of

graduate students in

mathematical sciences.

f. Consideration of existing or

new programs to assist

underrepresented groups

and/or at-risk students in the

mathematical sciences.



g. Please describe any other steps your department or institution has taken in the past year that deal

with equity, diversity, and inclusion as they pertain to the study of and employment in the mathematical sciences.

_____________________________________________________________________________



18



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 327



F7. For each of the following opportunities, indicate whether or not it is available to your

undergraduate mathematical sciences students through your department or institutions.



Available Not

available



a. Honors sections of departmental courses ...........................................

b. An undergraduate statistics club ..........................................................

c. Special statistics programs to encourage women ................................

d. Special statistics programs to encourage minorities .............................

e. Opportunities to participate in statistics or data science

competitions ........................................................................................

f. Special statistics lectures/colloquia not part of a statistics club ............

g. Statistics outreach opportunities in local K–12 schools ........................

h. Undergraduate research opportunities in statistics ...............................

i. Independent study opportunities in statistics ........................................

j. Assigned faculty advisers in statistics ..................................................

k. Opportunity to write a senior thesis in statistics ....................................

l. A career day for statistics majors .........................................................

m. Special advising about graduate school opportunities in

statistical sciences ...............................................................................

n. Opportunity for an internship experience or part-time

employment in a professional statistical opportunity ............................

o. Opportunity to participate in a senior seminar .....................................

p. Supervised consultation working in a consulting lab with clients ..........

q. Opportunity to tutor, grade papers, or TA in the department ................

r. A defined gathering space for majors ...................................................



F8. Give your best estimate of the number of all of your majors who have participated in each of the

following activities over the past year September 1, 2020 – August 31, 2021.



a. Undergraduate research project in statistics _________

b. Internship in statistics __________

c. Statistical consulting to client __________



19



328 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



F. Undergraduate Program (Fall 2021) (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



F9a. Does your department offer a minor in statistics?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to F9b.



No ................... If No, go to F10.



F9b. How many students graduated with a minor in statistics from your department between July 1,

2020 and June 30, 2021?



Number of students.............................



F10. Does your institution allow a student to meet an institutional, divisional, or general education

graduation requirement in the mathematical sciences using an Advanced Placement course (taken while the student was in high school)?



Yes .................



No ...................



20



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 329



G. Introductory Statistics Instruction Statistics Questionnaire



G1. Has your department offered a non-traditional “pathways” course sequence within the last five

years?



Yes .................

No ...................



(“Pathways” is defined to be a single course or course sequence that enables students to complete a college-level gateway mathematics or statistics course that is aligned to students' academic and/or career goals within one academic year.)



The following questions are about instruction in course E1: Introductory Statistics for non-majors/minors (no calculus prerequisite) on page 7.



G2. How many different kinds of introductory statistics courses designed for non-majors (general

education courses) that have no calculus prerequisite does your department offer? (e.g. statistics for social scientists, for life scientists, etc.)



1 ....................................................................

2 ....................................................................

3 ....................................................................

More than 3 ...................................................



The following questions are about instruction in course E1: Introductory Statistics (no calculus prerequisite) on page 7. If you offer more than one such course, choose the course that is aimed at the most general audience.



21



330 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



G. Introductory Statistics Instruction (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



G3. How often are each of these instructional strategies used in the Introductory Statistics courses

taught in your department in Fall 2021?



At least

once a Almost

week Occasionally never



a. Focusing on conceptual understanding over formulas and

procedures



b. Integrating real world applications



c. Students collect, organize, and analyze real data



d. Using student-centered active learning strategies



e. Using assessment such as regular graded homework or

quizzes to inform teaching



G4. Technology used in teaching Introductory Statistics could include graphing calculators, statistical

software, or online applets.



How successful is your program in adopting each of the following use of technology in your Introductory Statistics (no calculus prerequisite) courses taught in Fall 2021?



Very Somewhat Not

Successful Successful Successful

a. Students use technology to explore concepts



b. Instructors use technology to demonstrate concepts



c. Students use technology to analyze data

d. Students’ ability to use technology to solve problems is

assessed



22



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 331



G. Introductory Statistics Instruction (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



G5. Are there other introductory statistics courses at your institution, offered by departments outside

of the mathematical sciences?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to G6



No ................... If No, go to G7



G6. Enter the Fall 2021 total enrollment in all such introductory statistics courses, offered outside of

the mathematical sciences, at your institution. _______



G7. Are there introductory data science courses at your institution offered by other departments?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to G8



No ................... If No, go to Section H



G8. Enter the Fall 2021 total enrollment in all such introductory data science courses, offered outside

of your department at your institution. _______



23



332 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



H. Pre-service Teacher Education in Statistics Statistics Questionnaire



Questions regarding the statistical preparation of pre-service teachers:



H1. Does your institution offer a program of study that leads to obtaining credentials to teach

mathematics in public high schools (any license that includes grades 9-12) in your state?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H2



No ................... If No, skip to H3



H2. If yes, for each of the following core areas indicate whether the core area is required of all

students seeking certification that leads to obtaining credentials as a grades 9-12 mathematics teacher in public high schools in your state; if the course is generally taken by those seeking certification but not required; and if in that core area your department offers a special course that is specifically designed for pre-service grades 9-12 mathematics teachers.



If

“Required”

is “No”: Special

Course

Generally Course

Required Taken Offered

Yes No Yes No Yes No

a. Introductory Statistics that includes a simulation-

based approach to inference (whether or not

accompanied by a normal-based approach)



b. Introductory Statistics that only includes a normal-

based (non-simulation-based) approach to

inference



c. Statistical Methods with an introductory course as

a prerequisite



d. Statistical modeling



e. Probability and/or statistics with calculus

prerequisite



f. Other (please specify)

______________________________________



24



Appendix VIII. Four-Year Statistics Questionnaire 333



H. Pre-service Teacher Education in Statistics (cont.) Statistics Questionnaire



H3. Does your institution offer a program of study that leads to obtaining credentials to teach

mathematics at public middle schools (any license that includes grades 6-8) that is distinct from either the elementary or high school levels?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H4



No ................... If No, skip to H5



H4. If yes, how many semester hours of courses in statistics from your department are required by

your institution’s program of certification for pre-service middle grades teachers?



Number of semester hours.............................



H5. Does your institution offer a program of study that leads to obtaining credentials to teach

mathematics in public elementary schools (any license that includes grades K-5) in your state?



Yes .................. If Yes, go to H6



No ................... If No, skip to Section I



H6. If yes, how many semester hours of courses in statistics from your department are required by

your institution’s program of certification for pre-service elementary grades teachers?



Number of semester hours.............................



25



334 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



I. Comments and Suggestions Statistics Questionnaire



If you found some question(s) difficult to interpret or answer, please let us know. We welcome suggestions to improve future surveys (e.g., CBMS 2025).



Comments: ________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



__________________________________________________________________________________



Thank you for completing this questionnaire. We know it was a time-

consuming process and we hope that the resulting survey report,

which we hope to publish in spring 2023, will be of use to you and

your department.



Please keep a copy of your responses to this questionnaire in case

questions arise.



26



Appendix IX



Standard Errors



TABLE S.1



SEs

Four-Year College University Two-Year College

Mathematics Statistics Departments Mathematics Departments

2021 by Dept

2021 Math Stat 2021

Mathematics 121.7 121.7 na 120.1 Statistics 22.4 24.7 14.2 33.8 Computer Science 18.8 18.8 na na

Total 114.6094534 133.5 14.2 144.7



TABLE S.2



SEs



Two-Year College

Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments

Mathematics Departments



2021 2021 2021



16.2 47.1 66.3 42.0 62.7 26.3 17.1

31.2

121.7 120.1



19.5 12.0 33.8

8.4 5.7

24.7 14.2 33.8



3.3

7.2

7.8

2.9

18.8

133.5 14.2 144.7



335

336 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE S.3



SEs

20–21



1581.0



725.6



0.0



591.4



0.0



237.5



105.8



415.2



545.2



9.0



na



217.6



na



266.5



1828.7



671.4



392.7



118.2



1885.6

689.0



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 337



TABLE S.6



SEs

Percentage of Sections Taught by



Tenured/ Graduate

Tenure- Other Teaching Average Eligible Full-Time Part-Time Assistants Unknown Enrollment Section

Four-Year Colleges Universities % % % % % in 1000s Size

Non-Mainstream Calculus I

Lecture with separate recitation 6.6 10.1 7.5 8.4 0.0 5.0 14.5

Sections that meet as a class 6.7 8.4 5.0 6.1 0.0 11.7 4.9

Other sections 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0

Course total 2021 6.1 7.8 4.6 5.4 0.0 12.2 4.5

(2010, 2015)

Non-Mainstream Calculus II, III, etc.

Course total 2021 23.2 26.1 13.8 0.0 0.0 3.7 19.8

(2010, 2015)



Total Non-Mnstrm Calculus I II, III,

5.8 7.8 4.2 5.0 0.0 13.8 4.8

etc.



(2010, 2015)

Full-Time Part-Time

Two-Year Colleges

% %

Total Non-Mnstrm Calculus I II 5.9 5.9 2.0 2.1

(2010, 2015)



TABLE S.9



SEs



Four-Year Mathematics Two-Year Mathematics

Statistics Departments

Departments Departments



Distance- Distance- Distance-

Other Other Other

Learning Learning Learning

Enrollments Enrollments Enrollments

Enrollments Enrollments Enrollments

4246 14747 35753 19237



25277 55630 29460 18613



13188 29512 11829 5635



2953 9996 4070 2705



3925 12441 2780 1466



7352 16091 25613 15524 7257 9477



338 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE S.10



SEs

Mathematics Departments Two-Year Colleges

Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) College (BA) Total Total



4.5 11.5 5.5 4.5 6.5



9.1 8.2 4.9 4.0



11.1 11.1 7.2 5.9 4.5 11.1 9.3 7.2 5.9 4.5

0.0 7.1 0.0 1.0



12.0 12.2 7.3 6.0 6.2 12.0 10.9 7.3 5.9 6.1

0.0 7.1 0.0 1.0 1.0



10.9 13.2 8.0 6.5 6.6 10.9 11.9 7.9 6.5 6.6

0.0 8.5 4.1 3.4 1.6



10.4 6.5 4.0 3.3 3.6 10.4 4.1 4.0 3.3 3.6

0.0 5.1 0.0 0.7



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 339



TABLE S.11



SEs



Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments Two-Year Colleges



College

Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) Total Total Total

(BA)

9.7 8.8 5.8 4.6 5.7 3.8



17.4 12.5 6.8 5.8 6.1 14.0 12.5 6.3 5.3 7.5 14.0 0.0 2.2 1.9 6.7

0.0 0.0 3.1 2.5 7.2



11.6 7.3 6.9 5.8 5.5 5.2 11.6 7.3 6.8 5.7 5.5 5.2

0.0 0.0 1.6 1.2



14.0 8.8 5.8 4.7 5.5 4.1 14.0 8.8 5.6 4.6 5.5 4.1

0.0 0.0 1.6 1.2



14.7 12.6 5.9 5.0 7.1 16.3 12.9 8.6 7.2 7.8

9.1 5.3 6.2 5.0 5.0



17.6 13.3 7.8 6.7 8.2 6.6 18.0 13.3 8.1 6.9 8.2

9.1 0.0 5.3 2.6 2.2



16.5 5.3 4.6 3.8 5.9 3.6 16.5 0.0 4.4 3.6 5.9 3.6

0.0 5.3 1.6 1.4



340 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Total 6.9 6.9 1.6 6.3 6.3 1.2 6.4 6.1 3.2 6.8 6.9 3.7



Two-Year Colleges



Total 7.8 7.5 3.6 7.1 7.1 7.7 7.3 3.6 8.2 8.1 2.6

Statistics

Departments



Total 7.5 7.3 1.2 5.2 5.2 1.2 6.5 6.3 1.7 7.1 6.9 1.6



8.9 8.8 1.6 6.2 6.1 1.6 7.5 7.3 2.2 8.3 8.2 1.6



College (BA)



S.12

SEs 13.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.3 13.7 11.9 11.9 13.6 13.6 13.6 13.6

ABLE Mathematics Departments Univ (MA)

T



18.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 18.0 18.1 18.1 18.1 18.1 18.0 18.0

Univ (PhD)



Very successful Somewhat successful Not successful Very successful Somewhat successful Not successful Very successful Somewhat successful Not successful Very successful Somewhat successful Not successful



Students use technology to explore concepts Instructors use technology to demonstrate concepts Students use technology to analyze data Students' ability to use technology to solve problems is assessed Appendix IX. Standard Errors 341



TABLE S.13



SEs

2021

Four-Year Colleges Universities

Mathematics Departments

Full-time faculty 756

Part-time faculty 245

Statistics Departments (PhD)

Full-time faculty 100

Part-time faculty 74

Two-Year College Mathematics Programs

Full-time faculty 1117.1

Part-time faculty 1630.9



TABLE S.14



SEs

Fall 2021

Total TTE Other Full-Time Postdoc

756 337 480 140 673 335 396 140 232 27 229



100 47 87 25

83 47 66 25 38 2 38

769 346 489 143

Total Full-Time Full-Time Other Full-

Faculty Permanent Time



1117 919 470



342 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE S.15



SEs

Fall 2021

Other

Total Tenured Tenure-Eligible Postdoc

Full-Time

756 285 69 479 140 215 61 25 164 34



100 41 21 87 25

60 20 12 49 14



July 1, 2015 – June 30, 2021



Total Full-Time

Full-Time Age 40

918.7 224.5

590.8 121.9

2.8% 4%



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 343



Average Age 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.8 2021



69 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2



0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1

65–69



0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 2.0

60–64

59



0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 1.0

55–59

55–59



0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.2 2.0

50–54

50–54



S.16 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.2 1.0 45–49 SEs 45–49 ABLE

T

0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.0

40–44

40–44

Percentage of Tenured/Tenure-Eligible Faculty



0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.0

35–39

Percentage of Permanent Full-Time Faculty 35–39



0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 1.0

30–34

30–34



30 %%%%%%%%%% 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.0

30



Four-Year College University Mathematics Departments Tenured men Tenured women Tenure-eligible men Tenure-eligible women Total tenured tenure- eligible faculty Two-Year College Mathematics Programs Full-time permanent faculty Note: 0 means less than one half of 1%.



344 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Average Age 4.2 4.3 2.5 2021 13.1



69 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.1 1.0



0.4 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.9

65–69



0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.0

60–64



0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.1

55–59



0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 1.1

50–54



S.17 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.2 1.1 45–49 SEs

ABLE

T

0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 1.4

40–44

Percentage of Tenured/Tenure-Eligible Faculty



0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.2

35–39



0.2 0.4 0.4 0.5 1.6

30–34



30 %%%%%%%%%% 0.2 0.0 0.4 0.2 0.8



All Statistics Departments Tenured men Tenured women Tenure-eligible men Tenure-eligible women Total tenured tenure- eligible faculty



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 345



TABLE S.18



SEs

Mexican

Black, American/ White,

Not Puerto Rican/ Not

Asian Hispanic Other Hispanic Hispanic AIAN NHPI Unknown

% % % % %

0.2 0.1 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.1

0.3 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.0 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.0 0.1



TABLE S.19



SEs



Mexican

Black, American/ White,

Not Puerto Rican/ Not

Asian Hispanic Other Hispanic Hispanic AIAN NHPI Unknown

% % % % %

0.5 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.1

0.8 0.2 0.2 1.0 0.0 0.6 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.0 0.2



TABLE S.20



SEs

2020–2021



16.1

8.9

14.9



27.8



7

346 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.1



SEs

Percentage Whose Institutions Have a Certification Program for:



Grades K–5 Grades 6–8 Secondary (9–12)



Fall Fall Fall

Mathematics Departments 2021 2021 2021

Univ (PhD) 9.9 9.6 8.1

Univ (MA) 10.0 4.8 0.0

Coll (BA) 7.7 6.1 4.3



Total Math Depts 6.0 4.9 3.3



TABLE SP.2 TABLE SP.3



SEs SEs



5.7 9.0 2.3

1.7



5.7

4.6

1.8

1.6 1.7



4.6 3.4 2.0

1.6 1.9



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 347



TABLE SP.4



SEs



Univ (PhD) % Univ (MA) % Coll (BA) % All Math %



8.8 8.7 9.0 6.4



4.5 3.2 2.4



10.9 11.6 9.2 6.7



9.3 14.1 7.2 5.6



10.4 5.6 5.3 4.0



10.2 8.8 8.5 6.2



Univ (PhD) % Univ (MA) % Coll (BA) % All Math %



12.0 8.7 9.4 6.7



6.1 9.7 7.6 5.6



11.7 13.8 10.6 7.7



10.9 8.8 7.6 5.5



6.0 5.0 3.5



5.6 4.5 5.0 3.6



Univ (PhD) % Univ (MA) % Coll (BA) % All Math %



11.3 14.0 9.6 7.2 10.5 7.8 7.4 5.5

1.9 5.6 6.7 4.8

13.4 2.4

2.7 1.9

5.3 4.5 4.8 3.5



348 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.5



SEs



Univ (PhD) % Univ (MA) % Coll (BA) % All Math %



5.6 4.0



8.3 1.8



5.6 4.0



0.0 8.3 7.9 6.0



Univ (PhD) % Univ (MA) % Coll (BA) % All Math %



16.1 11.8



12.7 9.1



31.4 12.2 14.2 10.6



10.9 13.6 10.2 7.9



32.6 12.2 4.1 4.5



10.9 18.5 4.7



Univ (PhD) % Univ (MA) % Coll (BA) % All Math %



8.3 10.0 8.6

31.7 16.4 10.5 9.3 32.6 15.2 5.6 5.5



10.9 0.4



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 349



TABLE SP.6



SEs

Percentage of Departments with Secondary Certification Program Where:



Math Dept Offers Special Course

Course Is Generally Taken,

Course Is Required in the Subject for Secondary

but Not Required

Pre-Service Teachers



Univ Univ Coll All Univ Univ Coll All Univ Univ Coll All

(PhD) (MA) (BA) Math (PhD) (MA) (BA) Math (PhD) (MA) (BA) Math

% % % % % % % % % % % %

10.6 9.7 8.6 6.7 15.0 14.2 9.8 7.6 5.7 11.5 4.9 4.1

7.2 7.8 8.5 6.5 14.8 0.0 13.0 10.3 6.0 0.5 0.7

10.2 10.4 4.2 3.8 12.1 14.0 6.1 5.1 5.7 4.9 3.8

8.8 7.5 6.4 4.9 15.2 0.0 8.5 6.6 12.1 9.5 7.2 5.9

11.2 12.7 7.8 6.1 13.8 19.1 10.7 8.6 6.3 4.2 3.3

7.4 10.2 7.1 5.5 6.7 9.8 8.2 6.2 5.2 4.1

8.4 13.1 8.5 6.6 8.2 14.4 7.6 5.9 3.6 2.8

4.5 6.8 3.9 3.1 4.9 8.5 2.7 2.4 3.2 2.5

6.5 3.9 0.4 1.0 4.7 6.8 3.1 2.6 1.6 1.3

10.7 13.1 8.1 6.3 13.7 21.1 10.4 8.6 5.1 3.8

10.8 12.3 7.8 6.0 13.8 14.1 6.7 5.9 8.0 13.0 5.5 4.7

13.2 14.7 8.6 6.9 11.2 18.5 9.2 7.4 9.4 11.8 1.9



350 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.7



SEs

Percentage of Statistics Departments with Secondary Certification Program Where:



Stat Dept Offers

Course Is Generally Taken,

Course Is Required Special Course in the Subject for

but Not Required

Secondary Pre-Service Teachers



Univ Univ All Univ Univ All Univ Univ All

(PhD) (MA) Stat (PhD) (MA) Stat (PhD) (MA) Stat

% % % % % % % % %



9.3 28.7 8.8 5.7 4.6



13.7 28.7 12.0



11.0 8.8 8.6 6.4



6.9 5.4 7.4 5.7



13.5 33.1 11.9 17.6 14.7



10.0 28.7 9.2 8.6 6.9 28.7 4.6



14.7 0.0 11.7



14.7 11.7



28.7 40.6 21.7



33.1 40.6 21.7



28.7 15.3



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 351



TABLE SP.8.A



SEs

Statistics Two-Year

Mathematics Depts

Depts Colleges

Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) College (BA) Total Total Total

9.1 11.6 6.8 5.2 6.8 6.4 8.8 10.9 7.1 5.5 5.7 5.7 5.6 9.0 6.6 5.0 4.5 4.6



8.0 9.1 6.2 4.7 5.4 4.0 8.0 9.1 6.2 4.7 5.4 4.0

0.6



9.1 10.7 6.0 4.7 7.5 6.4 8.5 10.0 7.5 5.6 6.8 5.8 7.5 11.6 7.0 5.4 5.0 3.2



8.5 9.6 7.4 5.4 5.7 6.2 8.3 9.6 7.3 5.4 5.4 6.0 3.0 0.0 2.9 2.1 2.3 2.1



352 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Total 5.4 5.3 5.1



(BA) 7.0 6.8 6.6

College



Fall 2021



Univ 7.3 9.3 (MA) 11.1



Univ 8.1 9.1 9.0 (PhD)



Total 5.2 5.7 5.3



(BA) 6.7 7.3 6.5

.8.B(a) College

SP SEs



ABLE During Pandemic Univ (MA) 11.4 10.8 11.5 T



Univ 9.1 8.0 8.6 (PhD)



Total 5.8 5.4 3.1



(BA) 7.6 7.0 3.9

College



Prior to Pandemic Univ 6.3 6.6 (MA) 10.0



Univ 8.5 9.1 4.7 (PhD)



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 353



TABLE SP.8.B(b)



SEs

Prior to Pandemic During Pandemic Fall 2021

6.8 7.7 6.0

7.7 6.6 7.4

6.4 7.7 7.6



TABLE SP.8.B(c)



SEs

Prior to Pandemic During Pandemic Fall 2021

3.7 6.4 5.7

5.9 5.7 6.2

6.0 6.8 6.6



TABLE SP.9



SEs

Mathematics Depts Statistics Depts



(PhD) Univ Univ College Univ Univ Two-Year Total Total (MA) (BA) (PhD) (MA) Depts



8.7 8.5 6.3 4.8 7.3 13.3 6.3 4.8

8.7 8.5 6.3 4.8 7.3 13.3 6.3 4.8



10.6 13.2 8.7 6.8 9.9 21.7 8.7 6.4



8.8 8.6 6.8 5.2 9.6 15.3 8.2 6.3



7.7 10.4 5.9 4.7 5.2 19.8 5.7 2.6

4.4 8.0 3.9 3.1



7.1 7.2 7.5 5.6 7.1 21.7 7.1 6.3

9.9 13.8 9.1 7.0 9.8 21.7 8.6 5.6

8.2 6.5 4.1 3.3 5.3

10.6 13.2 7.3 5.9 9.9 15.3 8.5 6.6 354 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.10



SEs

Mathematics Depts Statistics Depts Two-Year Colleges

Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) College (BA) Total Total Total

5.9 8.8 5.4 4.2 6.7 5.7

10.8 11.3 7.4 5.7 8.6 7.1 10.5 8.5 6.6 5.1 7.4 6.4



4.3 8.8 3.8 3.1 5.0 4.3 9.1 12.4 6.4 5.1 8.5 7.2 9.6 13.3 7.1 5.7 8.8 6.9



8.9 13.3 7.7 6.0 8.7 6.3

10.3 13.7 8.0 6.3 8.8 6.9

7.3 6.5 6.2 4.7 5.0 5.4



7.2 0.0 1.8 1.6

10.2 13.1 8.6 6.7 8.8 6.9 10.8 13.1 8.7 6.8 8.8 6.9



9.3 8.1 5.4 4.3 8.4 6.3

10.7 10.8 8.3 6.4 8.6 7.1

8.5 8.1 7.0 5.3 4.1 5.4



6.7 0.0 1.8 1.6 3.0

10.6 13.5 7.6 8.5 6.8 10.8 13.5 7.6 6.1 8.4 6.8



4.3 0.0 1.8 1.4 5.7 1.3

10.2 11.8 7.4 5.8 8.8 6.9 10.5 11.8 7.5 5.8 8.5 6.9



10.7 12.0 7.4 5.9 8.2 6.2 10.7 13.5 8.2 6.5 8.6 6.9

0.0 12.7 6.0 4.8 5.0 5.0



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 355



TABLE SP.11.A



SEs

Mathematics Departments



Univ Univ College

Total

(PhD) (MA) (BA)



1.0 6.3 3.4 2.6

3.0 3.2 3.6 2.7

4.7 0.3 0.6

5.1 0.7

2.3 1.7

3.0 4.0 0.7



1.0 0.1

4.1 4.0 1.6 1.4

4.2 3.2 2.5 1.9

3.8 4.0 1.6 1.4

3.8 2.3 1.8

3.0 4.0 0.7

4.7 0.6

3.0 0.4



3.8 0.5

3.8 4.0 0.9 1.0

2.8 2.1

3.8 0.5

3.8 0.5



3.2 0.4



3.0 4.0 2.8 2.2

3.5 2.6

4.0 0.5



356 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.11.B



SEs

Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments



Univ Univ College Univ Univ

Total Total

(PhD) (MA) (BA) (PhD) (MA)



9.3 11.3 6.1 5.0 8.6 19.4 7.8

9.1 11.8 5.5 4.6 8.6 13.3 7.7

9.9 8.7 5.5 4.4 8.6 19.4 7.8

6.1 3.5 0.8 6.9 5.7

6.7 9.6 4.5 3.7 8.6 13.3 7.6

4.6 0.5 4.0 3.3

9.3 7.8 3.6 3.1 8.5 17.4 7.7

5.0 0.7 7.3 13.3 6.3

4.0 3.3

3.5 2.6 2.1 4.0 19.4 5.0

3.6 1.0 0.9 13.3 6.0

5.5 1.4 7.6 20.1 7.1

7.0 0.3 0.8 7.3 20.1 7.0

5.7 6.7 1.3 1.5 8.6 17.4 7.7

8.0 19.4 7.3

4.6 1.0 0.9 5.5 13.3 5.0

3.6 3.9 3.0 7.6 13.3 6.6

7.3 8.9 4.5 3.7 8.6 19.4 7.7



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 357



TABLE SP.12



SEs



Honors Sections Special Special Special Math

of Courses Math or Stat Programs Programs Math or Stat or Stat Colloquia Outreach in for Majors Club for Women for Minorities Contests for Undergrads K–12 Schools

% % % % % %



9.7 0.0 9.0 8.7 5.3 9.7 9.6



12.2 0.0 9.9 9.5 11.4 9.2 12.3



6.2 7.6 5.7 5.1 6.8 7.1 7.8



5.1 5.6 4.8 4.3 5.2 5.5 6.0



9.0 8.1 8.8 8.1 7.7 8.6 7.7



21.7 20.1 21.7 19.8 19.8 19.8



8.1 7.5 8.0 7.3 7.0 7.7 6.6



na 4.9 3.7 4.5 na 5.3 7.1



358 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



%

Other

na na 8.0



A Defined Majors na Gathering Space for 8.6 7.8 na 21.7



Tutor, Grade or TA Papers, 3.3 %%

10.5 5.4 4.2 8.1 7.5 na 21.7



%

Consulting Lab with Clients 5.7 9.9 6.6 5.1 8.1 7.7 na 24.3



%

Senior Seminar 9.7 9.2 7.7 5.8 8.1 7.3 na Opportunity 18.1



%

Internship 9.6 6.7 5.6 7.7 7.0 na Opportunity 11.0 19.8



%

.13 School Graduate Advising 9.6 8.9 7.3 5.6 8.1 7.3 na 18.1 SP

SEs



ABLE Math Day Career T 9.6 4.5 3.9 8.6 8.0 na 12.7 21.7



Senior Thesis na 9.2 7.9 6.2 9.1 8.1 Opportunity 12.4 19.8



%%%

Dept.

Assigned 8.8 5.1 3.4 2.8 9.0 8.2 6.3 Advisors in 22.9



%

Indep. Studies 5.3 0.0 2.7 2.1 6.0 5.6 5.5 Opportunity 18.1



%

Undergrad. Research 0.0 0.0 4.9 3.6 4.4 4.3 4.8 Opportunity 15.3



Percentage with

for Undergraduates

Additional Opportunities

Mathematics Departments Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) Coll (BA) Total Mathematics Depts Statistics Departments Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) Total Statistics Depts Two-Year College Mathematics Departments Appendix IX. Standard Errors 359



TABLE SP.14



SEs

All Math PhD MA BA All Stat PhD MA

Activity

Depts Math Math Math Depts Stat Stat

Undergraduate research project in the

2910.3 835.7 380.6 2715.1 124.1 122.4 45.0

mathematical sciences



Internship in mathematical sciences 873.7 220.1 101.9 820.5 196.7 115.7 175.4



Mathematical or statistical consulting to

1034.7 67.5 93.9 1029.3 114.8 63.0 102.9

client



TABLE SP.15



SEs



Univ Univ Coll

All Departments

(PhD) (MA) (BA)



Offered Offered Offered

Offered Course

Course Course Course

%

% % %



9.5 11.3 6.3 5.0



9.5 7.6 6.1 4.8



4.5 2.6 2.0



9.1 9.7 5.2 4.1



8.2 5.8 2.5 2.3



5.5 4.6 3.9 3.0



8.9 12.4 7.1 5.5



4.6 1.9 1.5



9.1 11.7 7.9 6.1



4.5 3.8 2.9



5.1 9.9 4.7 3.7

360 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Other 11865.0 na na na na

Fall 2021

Enrollments



na na na na

Fall 2021 1032.2



Four-Year Statistics



Dual Enrollments na na na na 26.7

Spring 2021



Other 30625.2 na

Enrollments Fall 2021 15887.6 15537.8 33760.7



.16

SP

SEs

Fall 2021 20634.2 6783.2 6386.2 6646.8 12508.8

ABLE

T

Two-Year Mathematics



Dual Enrollments

15882.4 6540.7 6125.2 6206.3 11375.8

Spring 2021



na

Other Fall 2021 27723.0 18464.0 32361.0 17773.2

Enrollments



565

Fall 2021 6326.6 898.0 2082.0 3426.0 1504.3



Four-Year Mathematics



Dual Enrollments

5741.0 2924.3 1888.2 2728.3 1969.5

Spring 2021



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 361



TABLE SP.17



SEs

Four-Year Two-Year

Statistics

Mathematics Mathematics

Departments

Departments Departments



2.3 7.0 0



1590.5 2869.8



362 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



(BA) % 6.6 7.8 8.5 8.5 6.8 5.7 7.3 5.9 7.6

College



Univ % 5.7 9.0 (MA) 13.8 14.2 15.1 11.5 14.3 14.4 10.3



Not Required in Any Major

Univ % 3.9 3.9 9.0 7.8 10.4 10.0 10.2 10.3 10.0 (PhD)



(BA) % 8.4 8.4 6.2 9.0 5.2 7.3 8.7 2.9 2.8

College



Univ % 4.6 9.1 8.4 9.0 7.9 (MA) 12.8 13.3 13.3 13.1



Required in Some but Not All Majors Univ % 8.3 9.2 8.8 9.5 8.5 7.1 10.2 10.1 10.3 (PhD)

.18

SP

SEs

(BA) % 8.6 7.5 7.6 8.3 8.7 7.6 8.5 6.3 7.2

ABLE College

T



Univ % 9.9 4.6 (MA) 13.9 12.8 11.6 10.7 14.3 12.8 12.8



Required in All Majors



Univ % 9.2 9.4 9.8 7.5 3.9 10.2 10.2 10.2 10.0 (PhD)



Mathematics Department Requirements



Modern Algebra I Real Analysis I Modern Algebra I or Real Analysis I (major may choose either to fulfill this requirement) A one-year upper-level sequence At least one computer science course At least one statistics course At least one applied mathematics course beyond course E21 A capstone experience (senior project, thesis, seminar, internship) An exit exam (written or oral) Appendix IX. Standard Errors 363



College (BA) % 23.8 23.8 28.3 27.2 11.0 23.8 23.8 25.9 11.0



Univ % 0.0 (MA) 43.3 36.3 43.3 43.3 36.3



Not Required in Any Major



Univ % 0.0 25.8 32.9 33.9 33.9 (PhD)



College (BA) % 3.3 3.3 10.1 10.1 10.1 10.1 11.0



Univ % 36.3 (MA) 43.3 43.3 36.3



.19.A Required in Some but Not All Majors Univ % 32.0 32.0 32.0 32.0 32.0 25.8 (PhD)

SP

SEs



ABLE % 0.0 0.0 T (BA) 10.1 24.6 10.1 28.3 27.2 11.0 23.8 23.8 24.6 25.6 College



Univ % 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (MA) 43.3 43.3 43.0 43.3 43.3 36.3



Required in All Majors



Univ % 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 32.0 25.8 32.0 32.0 32.0 32.0 32.0 33.9 (PhD)



Percentage of Mathematics Departments that Require: (a) Calculus I (b) Calculus II (c) Multivariable Calculus (d) Linear Algebra/Matrix Theory (e) At least one computer science course (f) At least one applied mathematics course, not incl. (a), (b), (c), (d) (g) A capstone experience (e.g., a senior thesis or project, seminar, or internship) (h) An exit exam (oral or written) (i) One Probability course (j) One Mathematical Statistics course (k) One applied statistics course (l) One Linear Models course (m) One Bayesian Inference course 364 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Univ % 28.7 (MA) 27.2 27.2 22.2 27.2 27.2 22.2 28.7 22.2



Not Required in Any Major % 4.3 4.3 7.1 5.8 5.3 8.8 8.9 0.0 6.4 6.4 5.8 7.9 7.7 Univ (PhD)



Univ % (MA) 22.9 22.9 22.2 22.2 22.2 22.2



Univ % 3.1 4.3 6.0 5.1 5.3 7.5 5.8 5.1 7.3 5.8 6.4 6.2 (PhD)

Required in Some but Not All Majors

.19.B

SP

SEs



T % 0.0 ABLE

Univ (MA) 22.9 22.9 27.2 27.2 22.2 22.2 27.2 22.2 28.7 22.2 28.7 22.2



Required in All Majors % 5.1 5.8 8.4 7.3 7.1 6.6 8.8 7.6 8.6 7.6 8.8 5.5 Univ (PhD)



Percentage of Statistics Departments that Require: (a) Calculus I (b) Calculus II (c) Multivariable Calculus (d) Linear Algebra/Matrix Theory (e) At least one computer science course (f) At least one applied mathematics course, not incl. (a), (b), (c), (d) (g) A capstone experience (e.g., a senior thesis or project, seminar, or internship) (h) An exit exam (oral or written) (i) One Probability course (j) One Mathematical Statistics course (k) One applied statistics course (l) One Linear Models course (m) One Bayesian Inference course Appendix IX. Standard Errors 365



TABLE SP.20



SEs

Academic Years 2020–2021 2021–2022



All Math Depts

PhD Math MA Math BA Math

2020–2022

% % %

%



5.6 7.6 11.5 7.4



3.8 9.0 9.3 4.6



4.8 8.2 11.1 6.0



3.6 8.9 8.8 4.4



4.3 8.5 8.6 5.5



1.1 6.7 5.5



2.4 7.0 5.1 2.9



4.6 9.1 11.1 5.9



5.5 8.8 9.4 7.1



4.1 7.5 10.6 5.2



5.4 8.1 11.1 6.8



4.0 8.7 9.8 4.9



2.6 7.5 9.4 2.8



4.1 9.1 10.4 5.0



6.0 8.9 9.0 7.7



366 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.20 (continued)



SEs

Academic Years 2020–2021 2021–2022



All Math Depts

PhD Math MA Math BA Math

2020–2022

% % %

%



1.9 6.3 5.9 1.6



3.3 7.6 4.5 4.2



2.6 9.0 10.6 2.5



4.6 8.6 11.4 5.6



3.9 9.0 10.8 4.5



5.4 7.6 10.5 6.8



2.9 8.8 8.3 3.4



2.3 8.0 7.0 2.4



3.3 8.1 10.5 3.6



1.4 8.4 6.6 0.3



3.0 8.0 7.8 3.5



5.5 9.0 11.0 6.9



5.5 9.0 10.4 7.1



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 367



TABLE SP.21



SEs

Academic Years Academic Years

2020–21 2021–22 2020–21 2021–22



All Math PhD MA BA All Stat PhD MA

Depts Math Math Math Depts Stat Stat

% % % % % % %



5.6 10.0 11.8 7.0 7.5 8.0 19.4 4.8 10.0 11.2 5.7 7.6 8.6 13.3 4.5 9.3 10.3 5.6 7.7 8.6 20.1 1.5 9.7 7.4 0.3 6.3 6.9 17.4



1.7 9.1 8.1 1.1 7.8 8.6 17.4 2.9 7.9 7.1 3.4 7.7 8.6 13.3 0.6 3.6 3.5 6.3 7.3 13.3 0.7 5.0 5.7 6.5 13.3



2.0 3.6 2.6 5.0 4.8 17.4 0.9 3.6 1.0 6.6 7.6 13.3 1.7 3.6 6.0 1.9 6.6 6.9 19.4 1.0 4.6 3.5 1.0 6.6 7.3 17.4 1.5 7.9 7.4 0.9 7.6 8.4 20.1 3.8 8.6 11.6 4.5 7.7 8.6 19.4 1.8 4.3 2.3 7.5 8.5 17.4 0.8 1.0 6.3 6.9 17.4 3.8 6.5 6.0 4.8 7.3 8.2 17.4



368 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.22



SEs

Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments



Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) College (BA) Univ (PhD) Univ (MA)

% % % % %



3.0 4.7 3.3 0.4 1.1



2.8 5.0 3.0 1.5 5.4



2.4 0.8 2.7 2.1 6.7



4.2 5.3 4.0 4.8 14.3



0.7 0.0 1.0 0.6 2.2



7.4 9.0 5.1 6.5 18.0



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 369



TABLE SP.23



SEs



Four-Year Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments



Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) College (BA) Univ (PhD) Univ (MA)

% % % % %



9.7 11.0 6.8 8.4 21.7



8.8 12.4 6.2 8.4 21.7



8.9 9.0 8.1 9.3 19.8



9.5 11.7 5.8 9.1 24.3



8.9 0.0 3.6 5.3 15.3



7.8 0.0 4.5 7.3 19.8



9.7 8.7 7.0 6.6 18.1



8.3 6.8 5.0 7.7 21.7



370 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE SP.24



SEs



Meets Requirement Depts All Math PhD MA BA All Stat PhD MA Math Math Math Depts Stat Stat



Yes (%) 2.5 6.0 3.7 3.2 4.6 3.0 19.4



No (%) 2.5 6.0 3.7 3.2 4.6 3.0 19.4



TABLE SP.25



SEs



Mathematics Departments



Univ (PhD) Univ (MA) College (BA) Total



8.9 12.4 5.8 4.7



345.2 2394.7 184.0 2409.3



7.1 7.2 4.8 3.8



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 371



Total 5.2 7.4 6.7 7.2 7.0 1.9 7.0 7.0 2.5 6.9 6.9 1.7 7.2 7.2 5.1

Two-Year Colleges



Total 6.2 8.4 7.9 7.6 8.5 7.6 8.4 8.5 5.9 8.4 8.5 5.9 7.6 8.6 7.6 4.0 6.2 8.4 7.9



Statistics Depts



Total 4.5 5.8 5.4 5.8 5.9 2.1 5.7 5.7 1.5 6.2 5.7 3.7 5.2 3.3 0.5 5.1 6.3 6.0 3.8



.26 6.0 7.4 6.9 7.3 7.4 2.3 7.3 7.3 2.0 7.8 7.2 5.0 6.3 3.7 0.0 6.6 7.6 5.0 SP

SEs College (BA)

ABLE

T



Mathematics Depts 5.8 8.6 9.9 7.2 0.0 0.0 9.7 0.0 8.6 4.6 10.0 11.3 10.8 10.8 11.3 11.3 11.7 10.6 11.1

Univ (MA)



5.3 9.3 8.7 9.1 9.4 4.5 9.7 9.7 3.6 9.7 9.7 0.0 9.6 9.7 3.5 0.0 8.2 9.1 5.8

Univ (PhD)



None Not A lot Some None A lot Some None A lot None A lot Some Some None A lot None A lot Some Some

applicable



Faculty discussion designed to increase awareness of DEI issues Student discussion designed to increase awareness of DEI issues Program or policy changes to affect the demographic balance of faculty in the mathematical sciences Program or policy changes to affect the demographic balance of undergraduate students in the mathematical sciences Program or policy changes intended to affect the demographic balance of graduate students in the mathematical sciences Consideration of existing or new programs to assist underrepresented groups and/or at-risk students in the mathematical sciences



372 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Stat 2.5 0.4 3.8 5.1 4.7 3.0 2.8 1.9 3.3 1.9 7.7 1.1 33.0 35.0 26.3 35.8 33.2 21.3 19.4 13.5 22.9 13.6

Doctoral



All Math 193.6 19.7 0.3 2.9 1.1 0.9 0.9 1.3 0.6 0.7 0.9 75.9 61.8 60.4 88.5 37.9 57.6 49.2 59.0 195.0 200.9



Math 63.3 8.9 0.3 2.0 0.7 0.7 0.9 1.3 0.6 0.9 0.9 0.8 59.1 58.2 21.7 20.7 25.7 37.5 17.8 27.6 26.6 23.7

Bachelor's



Master's Math 5.7 0.3 6.3 1.2 0.7 0.8 2.0 0.6 1.7 1.1 0.9 20.4 12.9 14.1 35.0 10.5 30.1 18.4 15.0 108.4 109.1 107.9



Doctoral Math 0.7 5.0 2.8 2.5 2.2 2.2 1.3 1.7 1.5 1.5 99.7 15.2 99.9 63.6 55.4 49.9 50.4 29.9 37.2 33.7 33.7 111.8

.27

SP

SEs



ABLE

T



Section B Renewable positions filled for 2020–2021 Number that left renewable position for 2021 Percent that left renewable position for 2021 Renewable positions filled for 2021–2022 Number active in teaching Percent active in teaching Number active in research Percent active in research Number that will attend a research conference with support Percent that will attend a research conference with support Number that will attend a teaching conference with support Percent that will attend a teaching conference with support Number that will serve in department committees Percent that will serve in department committees Number that advise undergrad. research projects Percent that advise undergrad. research projects Number that serve as academic advisor Percent that serve as academic advisor Number that serve on univ. committees Percent that serve on univ. committees Number that serve as course coordinator Percent that serve as course coordinator



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 373



Stat 1.9 0.9 8.0 6.3 5.6 9.3 4.9 9.7 5.1 3.5 1.9 6.1 3.2 4.5 2.4 2.8 1.5 25.5 25.1 15.2 12.0 10.6

Doctoral



All Math 133.5 19.7 0.9 3.1 1.7 1.2 0.9 1.3 0.7 0.7 0.8 74.5 39.3 28.1 22.5 30.9 16.9 23.9 16.9 18.3 134.1



Math 31.7 1.4 3.3 1.5 1.4 1.4 2.1 7.9 0.9 1.7 1.3 8.9 1.0 10.9 31.8 27.6 12.8 11.8 11.8 17.8 14.8 10.9

Bachelor's



Math 4.6 0.9 7.5 2.0 9.5 1.7 2.0 3.1 2.2 0.4 6.3 1.1 6.3 1.1 6.1 1.1 31.6 35.5 41.4 11.1 10.9 17.2

Master's



Doctoral Math 1.5 4.8 3.3 2.3 1.5 1.8 1.5 1.7 1.2 1.3 14.5 47.3 32.6 22.2 14.7 18.0 14.5 17.2 12.1 13.0 115.4 114.6

.28

SP

SEs



ABLE

T



Number of Fixed-term positions filled for 2019–2020 Number that left renewable position for 2020 Percent that left renewable position for 2020 Number of Fixed-term positions filled for 2020–2021 Number active in teaching Percent active in teaching Number active in research Percent active in research Number that will attend a research conference with support Percent that will attend a research conference with support Number that will attend a teaching conference with support Percent that will attend a teaching conference with support Number that will serve in department committees Percent that will serve in department committees Number that advise undergrad. research projects Percent that advise undergrad. research projects Number that serve as academic advisor Percent that serve as academic advisor Number that serve on univ. committees Percent that serve on univ. committees Number that serve as course coordinator Percent that serve as course coordinator



374 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE E.2



SEs

Fall 2021 Enrollments (in 1000s)

Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments

Univ Univ Coll Total Math Univ Univ Total Stat

(PhD) (MA) (BA) Depts (PhD) (MA) Depts



7 6 13 16



46 27 40 66



55 23 24 63



16 4 5 17



94 51 63 122



8 11 15 20 12 9 12



3 2 7 8 6 2 6



11 12 20 25 14 11 14



0 0 3 3



3 1 7



4 2 7 8



0 0 3 3



8 5 16 19



93 61 80 133 14 11 14



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 375



TABLE E.5



SEs

Number of Calculus-Level Sections Taught by

Graduate

Tenured/ Other Total

Part-Time Teaching Unknown

Tenure-Eligible Full-Time Sections

Assistant

Mathematics Departments

Univ (PhD) 326 429 163 370 0 742



Univ (MA) 335 209 150 16 271 593



Coll (BA) 678 369 198 0 10 1000



829 619 299 370 271 1375



TABLE E.7



SEs

Sections Sections

Total Total

Taught by Taught by

Sections Sections

Mathematics Departments TTE Statistics Departments TTE Advanced Mathematics courses

Univ (PhD) 278 358



Univ (MA) 208 259



Coll (BA) 402 410



Total advanced mathematics 557 626



Advanced Statistics courses

Univ (PhD) 86 102 45 93



Univ (MA) 83 90 39 57



Coll (BA) 264 298



Total advanced statistics 292 330 48 94



Total all advanced courses 756 837 48 94



376 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE E.8



SEs

Number of Lower-Level Computer Science Sections Taught by

Tenured/ Graduate

Other Total

Tenure-Eligible/ Part-Time Teaching Unknown

Full-Time Sections

Permanent Assistant



59 72 42 0 0 141



24 5 18 0 0 50



247 80 43 0 0 279



252 109 63 0 0 309



TABLE E.9



SEs

Number of Middle-Level Computer Science Sections Taught by

Graduate

Tenured/ Other Total

Part-Time Teaching Unknown

Tenure-Eligible Full-Time Sections

Assistant



39 113 28 0 0 147



64 2 18 0 0 81



293 82 30 0 0 344



301 139 45 0 0 380



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 377



TABLE E.10



SEs

Average Section Size Fall 2021

Mathematics Depts Statistics Depts

All Depts

Univ Univ Coll Overall Univ Univ Overall

2021

(PhD) (MA) (BA) Math (PhD) (MA) Stat



17 4 1 2 2



6 2 1 1 1



6 2 1 2 2



4 1 1 2 2



5 2 1 1 8 12 7 1



2 2 2 1 4 4 4 1



0 1 0 0



1 13 3 2 2



5 17 3 2 2



0 0 6 6 6



TABLE E.11



SEs

Average Recitation Section Size

Univ Univ College

(PhD) (MA) (BA)



17 18 6



9 0 0



13 9 3



23 0



11 0 4



23 47



378 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Part- 48 26 93 51 63 Time 120



Post- 11 4 0 0 4 11 Docs



OFT 73 44 52 23 98 52

Coll (BA)



28 5 2 15 27 15

Tenure- Eligible



93 8 33 14 98 36

Tenured



Part- 66 40 80 42 57 Time 115



Post-

Docs 5 2 0 0 5 2



OFT 50 16 80 172 85 199

Univ (MA)

.1

F

22 6 3 11 24 11

SEs Tenure- Eligible

ABLE

T

77 4 21 12 82 23

Tenured



Part- 58 29 60 73 59 27 47 27 74 33 Time 124 159



Post- 28 0 0 0 0 28 25 14 25 14 Docs 116 116



OFT 68 80 48 90 66 33 38 25 87 49 306 320

Univ (PhD) Univ (PhD)



40 0 0 2 2 14 40 14 19 10 21 12

Tenure- Eligible



Tenured 138 30 7 1 0 15 33 41 20 41 20 140



Mathematics Depts Doctoral faculty Doctoral (F) Non-doctoral faculty Non-doctoral (F) Total Mathematics Total Mathematics (F) Statistics Doctoral faculty Doctoral (F) Non-doctoral faculty Non-doctoral (F) Total Statistics Total Statistics (F)

Appendix IX. Standard Errors 379



TABLE F.1.1



SEs

Tenured Tenure-Eligible OFT Post-Docs Part-Time

Mathematics Depts Univ (PhD) + Univ (MA) + Coll (BA)

Doctoral faculty 282 69 396 140 104

Doctoral (F) 58 25 95 34 57

Non-doctoral faculty 24 8 229 0 183

Non-doctoral (F) 12 4 118 0 92

Total Mathematics 285 69 479 140 245

Total Mathematics (F) 61 25 164 34 117

Statistics Depts Univ (PhD)

Doctoral faculty 41 19 66 25 59

Doctoral (F) 20 10 33 14 27

Non-doctoral faculty 1 2 38 0 47

Non-doctoral (F) 0 2 25 0 27

Total Statistics 41 21 87 25 74

Total Statistics (F) 20 12 49 14 33



380 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



Post- 107 34 140 Docs



OFT 339 164 479



Total

52 25 69

Tenure- Eligible



241 61 285

Tenured



Post- 9 4 11 Docs



OFT 58 52 98



Coll (BA)

18 15 27

Tenure- Eligible



70 36 98

Tenured



.2 3 2 5 F Post- Docs

SEs



ABLE 85 T OFT 119 199



Univ (MA)

15 11 24

Tenure- Eligible



66 23 82

Tenured



Post- 89 28 116 Docs



OFT 90 247 320



Univ (PhD)

31 14 40

Tenure- Eligible



118 33 2232111032204341 140

Tenured



Men, 2021 Women, 2021 Nonbinary, 2021 Total, 2021

Appendix IX. Standard Errors 381



TABLE F.3



SEs

Doctoral Statistics Departments

Tenure- Other

Tenured Eligible Full-Time Post-Docs

Men, 2021 34 15 49 14 Women, 2021 20 12 49 14 Nonbinary, 2021 1 2 0 0 Total, 2021 41 21 87 25



382 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



69 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.1 1.0



0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.9

65–69



0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.0

60–64



0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.1

55–59



0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 1.1

50–54



0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.2 1.1

45–49

.4

F



SEs

ABLE 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.4 1.4 T 40–44



0.2 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.2

35–39



0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.0 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.9 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.5 1.6

30–34



30 %%%%%%%%%% 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.4 0.2 0.8



Total Univ (PhD) Total Univ (MA) Total Coll (BA) Total Univ (PhD)



Mathematics Depts. Univ (PhD) Tenured men Tenured women Tenure-eligible men Tenure-eligible women Univ (MA) Tenured men Tenured women Tenure-eligible men Tenure-eligible women Coll (BA) Tenured men Tenured women Tenure-eligible men Tenure-eligible women Statistics Depts. Univ (PhD) Tenured men Tenured women Tenure-eligible men Tenure-eligible women Appendix IX. Standard Errors 383



TABLE F.5



SEs

Percentage of Full-Time Faculty



Mexican

American/

Black, Not Puerto Rican/ White, Not AIAN or

Asian Hispanic Other Hispanic Hispanic NHPI Unknown

% % % % % %

PhD Mathematics Departments

All full-time men 0.4 0.2 0.2 1.6 0.0 0.6 All full-time women 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.2

MA Mathematics Departments

All full-time men 0.5 0.2 0.3 1.1 0.0 0.8 All full-time women 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.0 0.3

BA Mathematics Departments

All full-time men 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.2 All full-time women 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.0 0.1

PhD Statistics Departments

All full-time men 0.8 0.2 0.2 1.0 0.0 0.6 All full-time women 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.0 0.2



TABLE F.6



SEs

Percentage of Full-time Faculty

Mexican

American/

Black, Not Puerto Rican/ White, Not AIAN or

Asian Hispanic Other Hispanic Hispanic NHPI Unknown

% % % % % %

PhD Mathematics Departments

All part-time men 0.8 0.7 0.8 3.0 0.2 1.2 All part-time women 0.6 0.8 0.3 3.0 0.1 0.5

MA Mathematics Departments

All part-time men 0.3 0.4 0.5 1.7 0.2 0.5 All part-time women 0.2 0.4 0.3 1.3 0.1 0.3

BA Mathematics Departments

All part-time men 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.0 0.3 All part-time women 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.2

PhD Statistics Departments

All part-time men 2.9 1.3 2.6 7.8 0.3 3.4 All part-time women 1.8 0.7 0.5 8.0 0.1 1.2



384 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



6 6 8 7 7



All Depts. Combined



Univ 13 19 19 17 (MA)



Statistics Departments

7 6 8 8 8

Univ (PhD)



5 6 5 2



All Depts. Combined



6 7 6 2 32

(BA)

College



.5 (MA) Univ 9 12 12

FY Mathematics Departments



ABLE SEs 4 10 17 14 Univ (PhD) T



1 2 31 More than 3

Percentage of departments that offer Introductory Statistics with no calculus prerequisite Number of different kinds of Introductory Statistics courses for non-majors with no calculus prerequisite



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 385



TABLE FY.6



SEs

Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments

At Least At Least

Almost Almost

Once a Occasionally Once a Occasionally

Never Never

Week Week



a. Focusing on conceptual understanding

over formulas and procedures 6 6 1 5 5



b. Integrating real world applications 5 5 1 5 5



c. Students collect, organize, and analyze

real data 5 7 5 7 8 5



d. Using student-centered active learning

strategies 7 7 4 8 8 3



e. Using assessments such as regular graded

homework or quizzes used to inform teaching 4 4 1 6 6



TABLE FY.7



SEs

Mathematics Departments Statistics Departments

Very Somewhat Not Very Somewhat Not

Successful Successful Successful Successful Successful Successful



a. Students use technology

to explore concepts 7 7 1 8 8 4



b. Instructors use technology

to demonstrate concepts 5 5 1 7 7



c. Students use technology

to analyze data 6 6 2 8 7 4



d. Students’ ability to use technology

to solve problems is assessed 7 7 2 8 8 3



386 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE FY.8



SEs

Mathematics Depts Statistics Depts

Univ Univ College Univ Univ

Total Total

(PhD) (MA) (BA) (PhD) (MA)

Average estimated outside enrollment in

166 46 14 23 47 0 43

Introductory Statistics

Estimated outside national enrollment in

17626 5459 10154 21094 1079 49 1107

Introductory Statistics

Average estimated outside enrollment in

67 0 12 26 28 28

Introductory Data Science

Estimated outside national enrollment in Data

6137 0 2211 6527 896 896

Science



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 387



TABLE TYE.2 TABLE TYE.3



SEs SEs



2021 2021



157,543

8.4

8.3

12.9

28.6

0.8

7.7



30.6

7.9

3.9

2.4

15.9



14.1

5.7

3.5

3.4

1.8

1.9



2.1

1.7

32.9

10.1

4.6

18.1

14.6

2.2

0.9

0.3

3.6



3.7

2.4

5.3

1.2

144.7

388 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYE.4 TABLE TYE.5



SEs SEs



Numbers Course 6.9 Type of Course 2021 6.8

6.4

1–5a Pre-college level 47

4.7

1.9

6–10 Precalculus level 42 6.1

5.0

6.9

11–16 Calculus level 26

4.6

3.5

19–20 Statistics, Probability 34 6.9

4.3



17–18 6.4 Remaining courses 31

6.8

21–31

6.4

1–31 Total, All Courses 145 2.0

6.4

6.1

5.1

3.8

4.6

5.5

6.7

6.6

6.9

6.8

4.6

6.3

na

6.1

3.7

5.9

3.9



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 389



TABLE TYE.6



SEs

4.3

6.4

6.1

5.1

3.8

5.5

6.7

6.9

6.1

3.7



TABLE TYE.7



SEs



Percentage of

Average Sections with

Section Size Size 30



1.04 0.00



0.85 0.00



1.09 0.01



0.96 0.00



0.64 0.00



TABLE TYE.7.1



SEs

Percentage of 2021

2021 Average Departments with Average

Section Size Size 30

1.69 0.00



0.85 0.01



1.41 0.01



0.99 0.01



0.89 0.01



390 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYE.8



SEs

Average Average Average Average

On-Campus Distance Learning On-Campus Distance Learning Section Size Section Size Section Size Section Size



1.4 1.8 2.6 2.3

1.7 1.6 1.9 2.8

1.4 1.2 1.0 1.0

1.4 3.5 0.9 3.8

3.9 0.0 6.3 4.3

1.7 1.8 1.1 1.4

1.3 1.1 1.3 1.1

1.4 1.2 1.5 1.7

1.6 4.1 3.4 2.1

4.0 6.0 5.3

1.1 1.4 2.3 2.0

1.2 1.5

1.4 1.8 1.4 0.8

1.5 1.9 2.3 2.2

1.7 1.7 1.3 3.0

5.6 1.5 1.8 2.3

2.2 2.1



TABLE TYE.9



SEs



Number of Percentage of

Sections Taught Sections Taught

Number of by Part-Time by Part-Time

Sections Faculty Faculty



1436.6 1556.3 0.1

903.0 718.9 0.1

404.8 131.4 0.0

114.3 71.1 0.2

103.7 55.5 0.1

829.1 716.4 0.2

622.4 542.9 0.1

123.3 170.1 0.3

131.3 98.0 0.2

3284.4 2755.8 0.1



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 391



TABLE TYE.10



SEs



Implemented in Intermediate Algebra a

2021? Prerequisite in 2021?



Yes Yes



6.5



4.6 6.8

4.5 5.8

6.6 7.9

12.9 13.7



TABLE TYE.11



SEs

2021 2021 2021



Total Distance Percentage

Enrollments Enrollments Distance

(1000s) (1000s) Enrollments

8.4 6.6 0.1

8.3 6.3 0.1

12.9 8.1 0.1

28.6 22.1 0.1

0.8 0.2 0.7

7.7 5.8 0.1

30.6 20.5 0.0

7.9 5.9 0.0

3.9 2.1 0.1

2.4 1.1 0.1

15.9 10.9 0.1

14.1 10.7 0.0

5.7 3.9 0.0

3.5 2.6 0.1

3.4 2.5 0.0

1.8 0.9 0.3

1.9 1.5 0.1

2.1 1.6 0.1

1.7 1.5 0.1



392 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYE.11 (continued)



SEs

2021 2021 2021



Total Distance Percentage

Enrollments Enrollments Distance

(1000s) (1000s) Enrollments



32.9 25.2 0.0



10.1 4.1 0.4



4.6 3.2 0.2



18.1 11.9 0.1



14.6 9.8 0.1



2.2 1.5 0.1



0.9 0.8 0.1



0.3 0.3 0.0



3.6 2.9 0.1



3.7 2.5 0.1



2.4 1.8 0.1



5.3 4.7 0.1



1.2 0.9 0.1



144.7 107.7 0.0



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 393



TABLE TYE.12 TABLE TYE.13



SEs SEs



2021

4.8

4.8 na

6

6.4

8

6.3

8

2.6

8

8

7

6.3 6

5.6 8 5.3

6

6.6

6

na

na

5

4

5

4

7

5

6

8



394 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYF.1



SEs



Two-Year Colleges 2021



Full-time permanent faculty 918.7



Full-time continuing faculty 261.6



Other full-time faculty 326.9



Part-time faculty paid by TYC 1630.9



Part-time, paid by third party 969.1



TABLE TYF.2



SEs

Teaching Assignment in Weekly Contact Hours



10 10 to 12 13 to 15 16 to 18 19 to 21 21



2.3 4.4 6.7 4.2 4.2 2.0

Percentage of Two-Year Colleges



Full-Time Permanent Faculty



A. Average weekly contact hours: 0.5



B. Percentage who teach extra hours for extra pay at their own two-year college: 4%



C. Percentage teaching 1–3 extra hours for extra pay: 4%



D. Percentage teaching 4–6 extra hours for extra pay: 4%



E. Percentage teaching 7 or more extra hours for extra pay: 5%



Part-Time Faculty



F. Percentage who teach 6 or more hours weekly: 4%



G. Percentage of two-year colleges requiring part-time faculty to hold office hours: 6.5



TABLE TYF.3



SEs

Number no longer part of 2021–2022 faculty 63.4



Total full-time permanent faculty, fall 2021 918.7

Appendix IX. Standard Errors 395



TABLE TYF.4



SEs



Highest Degree 2021 Percentage of Full-Time Faculty



Doctorate 3 0.03



Master's 3 0.03



Bachelor's 0 0.00



Number of full-time permanent faculty 919



TABLE TYF.5



SEs

Percentage Having as Highest Degree



Total Percent

Field of Degree Doctorate Master's Bachelor's

in Field



Mathematics 2.2 3.5 0.0 2.7



Statistics 0.6 1.5 0.0 1.6



Mathematics Education 1.6 1.6 0.3 2.0



Other fields 0.5 1.5 0.3 1.7



Total percentage by highest degree 3.3 3.3 0.4



TABLE TYF.6



SEs

Highest Degree 2021



Doctorate 1.1



Master's 3.0



Bachelor's 2.7



Number of part-time faculty 2066.4



396 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYF.7



SEs

Percentage Having as Highest Degree



Total Percent

Field of Degree Doctorate Master's Bachelor's

in Field



Mathematics 0.9 5.4 1.9 5.9



Statistics 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.6



Mathematics Education 0.4 5.0 1.6 5.2



Other fields 0.5 2.7 1.4 3.4



Total percentage by highest degree 1.1 3.0 2.7



TABLE TYF.8



SEs

2021

Men 632.2

2.8%

Women 590.8

2.8%

Total 796



TABLE TYF.9



SEs

Percentage of



Full-Time

Part-Time

Permanent

Faculty

Faculty



Men 2.8 3.1



Women 2.8 3.1



Total number 796 1313.2



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 397



TABLE TYF.10



SEs



2021



Percentage of ethnic minorities among

2.6%

full-time permanent faculty

Number of full-time permanent ethnic

262.4

minority faculty



Number of full-time permanent faculty 918.7



TABLE TYF.11



SEs



Ethnic Group 2021



American Indian / Eskimo / Aleut 0.3



Asian / Pacific Islander 1.2



Black (non-Hispanic) 1.3



Mexican American / Puerto Rican / other Hispanic 1.4



White (non-Hispanic) 5.4



Status unknown 1.6



Not reported



Number of full-time permanent faculty 918.7



398 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYF.12



SEs



Percentage of Ethnic Percentage of

Number of Full-Time Group in Full-Time Women in

Ethnic Group Permanent Faculty Permanent Faculty Ethnic Group

American Indian, Alaskan Native 30.2 0.3 78.5



Asian / Pacific Islander 113.2 1.2 9.9



Black or African American (non-Hispanic) 124.5 1.3 7.4



Mexican American, Puerto Rican, or other Hispanic 129.1 1.4 7.1



White (non-Hispanic) 613.2 5.4 2.9



Status not known or other 148.5 1.6 6.3



Not reported



Total 918.7 3.8



TABLE TYF.13



SEs

Percentage Among



All Full-Time Full-Time Permanent

Ethnic Group Permanent Faculty Faculty Under Age 40



Ethnic minorities 2.6 8.8



White (non-Hispanic) 5.4 9.8



Unknown 1.6 2.0



Not reported



Number 918.7 66.6



TABLE TYF.14



SEs

2021



Percentage of ethnic minorities among part-time faculty 4.0



Number of part-time faculty 1630.9



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 399



TABLE TYF.15



SEs

Percentage of



Number of Ethnic Group Among Women Within

Ethnic Group Part-Time Faculty All Part-Time Faculty Ethnic Group

American Indian, Alaskan Native 18.6 0.0 22.4



Asian / Pacific Islander 191.7 0.0 5.6



Black or African American (non-Hispanic) 171.9 0.0 9.4

Mexican American, Puerto Rican, or other Hispanic 171.6 0.0 12.8



White (non-Hispanic) 1031.2 0.1 4.1



Status not known or other 352.4 0.0 8.1



Total 3.1



TABLE TYF.16



SEs

Percentage of Full-Time Permanent Faculty Number of Full-Time Permanent Faculty



Age 2021 2021



30 0.9 82.2



30–34 1.1 97.1



35–39 1.3 130.0



40–44 1.3 131.7



45–49 1.4 149.0



50–54 1.8 190.5



55–59 1.5 152.4



59 1.9 185.4



Not reported



Total 918.7



400 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYF.17



SEs



Percentage of Full-Time Permanent Faculty Percentage of Women

Age in Age Group Women Men Non-Binary



35 0.8 1.1 0.0 5.2



35–44 1.2 1.3 0.0 4.5



45–54 1.7 1.5 0.0 4.5



54 1.6 1.9 0.0 4.6



Not reported 3.2 3.2 0.0 5.1



Total 5.3 5.4 0



TABLE TYF.18



SEs

Percentage of New Faculty from: 2021



A. Graduate School 7.7



B. Teaching in a four-year college or university 2.2



C. Teaching in another two-year college 8.5



D. Teaching in a secondary school 6.2



E. Part-time or full-time temporary employment at the same college 16.2



F. Nonacademic employment 0.0



G. Unemployed 0.0



H. Unknown 11.0



Total number appointed 69.6



TABLE TYF.19



SEs

Highest Degree 2021–2022



Doctorate 12.0



Master's 13.3



Bachelor's 0.0



Unknown 7.4



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 401



TABLE TYF.20



SEs

Percentage of Women in

Ethnic Group for 2021–2022

Ethnic Group 2021–2022 New Appointments



American Indian 0.0 0.0



Asian / Pacific Islander 5.6 4.5



Black or African American (non-Hispanic) 1.9 1.9



Mexican American, Puerto Rican, or other Hispanic 5.1 0.0



White (non-Hispanic) 11.7 11.9



Other 4.5 4.0



Unknown 7.4 0.0



Percentage of women among all new hires 15.2



TABLE TYF.21



SEs



Percentage of Two-Year

Colleges in Fall 2021



Colleges that require teaching

0

evaluations for all full-time faculty



Colleges that require teaching

4.1

evaluations for all part-time faculty



402 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYF.22



SEs

Percentage of Departments

Using Evaluation Method for



Method of Evaluating Teaching Part-Time Faculty Full-Time Faculty



A. Observation of classes by other faculty 6.5 7.0



B. Observation of classes by division head (if different

6.7 7.0

from chair) or other administrator



C. Evaluation forms completed by students 2.6 1.6



D. Evaluation of written course material such as lesson

7.3 7.0

plans, syllabus, or exams



E. Self-evaluation such as teaching portfolios 5.5 7.0



F. Written peer evaluations 5.2 6.6



G. Other methods 7.5 7.3



TABLE TYF.23



SEs



Faculty Development Fall 2021



Percentage of institutions requiring continuing education or

4.8

professional development for full-time permanent faculty



Appendix IX. Standard Errors 403



TABLE TYF.24



SEs

Problem 2021



A. Maintaining vitality of faculty 4.7



B. Dual-enrollment courses 2.9



C. Staffing statistics courses 3.3



D. Students don't understand demands of college work 6.9



E. Need to use part-time faculty for too many courses 3.1



F. Faculty salaries too low 6.3



G. Class sizes too large 3.1



H. Low student motivation 7.1



I. Too many students needing remediation 7.0



J. Lack of student progress from developmental to advanced courses 6.1



K. Low success rate in transfer-level courses 5.1



L. Too few students who intend to transfer actually do 1.9



M. Inadequate travel funds for faculty 3.8



N. Learning disabilities are not adequately supported 3.7



O. Inadequate classroom facilities for use of technology 3.7



P. Inadequate classroom facilities for teaching with active learning 3.9



Q. Inadequate computer facilities for part-time faculty use 4.3



R. Inadequate computer facilities for student services 1.9

S. Heavy classroom duties prevent personal teaching

4.1

enrichment by faculty



T. Coordinating mathematics courses with high schools 4.3



U. Lack of curricular flexibility because of transfer rules 2.1



V. Other barriers that inhibit curricular changes 2.7



W. Maintaining high and consistent expectations across sections 5.1



X. High cost of textbooks 4.3



Y. Lack of flexibility in curricular redesign 1.6

Z. Maintaining common standards between distance learning

5.6

and related courses



AA. Use of distance education na



404 2021 CBMS Survey of Undergraduate Programs



TABLE TYF.25



SEs

Percentage of Department Heads

Classifying Problems as



Minor or Somewhat of Major

Problem

No Problem a Problem Problem



A. Maintaining vitality of faculty 7.1 6.9 4.7

B. Dual-enrollment courses 7.2 7.1 2.9

C. Staffing statistics courses 7.2 7.0 3.3

D. Students don't understand demands of college work 3.2 7.0 6.9

E. Need to use part-time faculty for too many courses 6.5 6.1 3.1

F. Faculty salaries too low 4.6 7.0 6.3

G. Class sizes too large 6.7 6.4 3.1

H. Low student motivation 1.4 7.1 7.1

I. Too many students needing remediation 4.1 7.1 7.0

J. Lack of student progress from developmental to advanced courses 5.5 6.9 6.1

K. Low success rate in transfer-level courses 6.2 7.0 5.1

L. Too few students who intend to transfer actually do 7.1 7.3 1.9

M. Inadequate travel funds for faculty 6.2 5.5 3.8

N. Learning disabilities are not adequately supported 7.0 6.6 3.7

O. Inadequate classroom facilities for use of technology 6.6 6.0 3.7

P. Inadequate classroom facilities for teaching with active learning 6.6 6.1 3.9

Q. Inadequate computer facilities for part-time faculty use 6.7 5.9 4.3

R. Inadequate computer facilities for student services 6.3 6.2 1.9

S. Heavy classroom duties prevent personal teaching

7.3 7.2 4.1

enrichment by faculty

T. Coordinating mathematics courses with high schools 7.0 7.2 4.3

U. Lack of curricular flexibility because of transfer rules 6.9 6.8 2.1

V. Other barriers that inhibit curricular changes 7.2 6.8 2.7

W. Maintaining high and consistent expectations across sections 6.9 7.2 5.1

X. High cost of textbooks 7.3 7.1 4.3

Y. Lack of flexibility in curricular redesign 6.4 6.3 1.6

Z. Maintaining common standards between distance learning

6.9 7.1 5.6

and related courses



Bibliography



[ACM] Joint Task Force on Computing Curricula, Association for American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2018.

Computing Machinery (ACM) and IEEE Computer Soci- Available at http://www.ams.org/profession/data/

ety Association for Computer Machinery report, “Computer cbms-survey/cbms-survey.

Science Curricular 2013.” Available at https://dl.acm. [CBMS2020] Conference Board of Mathematical Sciences 2020–2022 Sur-

org/citation.cfm?id=2534860 . veys. Available at https://www.ams.org/profession/

[CAUSE] Consortium for the Advancement of Undergraduate Statisti- data/cbms-survey/cbms2020.

cal Education (CAUSE), Pedagogic Resource Library. Avail- [CUPM] Committee on Undergraduate Programs in Mathematics

able at http://serc.carleton.edu/sp/cause/index. (CUPM),2015 Curriculum Guide to Majors in the Mathemat-

html. ical Sciences. Available at https://maa.org/resource/

[CBMS1995] D. Loftsgaarden, D. Rung, and A. Watkins, Statistical Ab- cupm-guide/.

stract of Undergraduate Programs in the Mathematical Sci- [JDC] Annual reports of the Joint Data Committee, Notices of ences in the United States, Fall 1995 CBMS Survey, MAA the American Mathematical Society, published annually.

Reports, Number 2, Mathematical Association of Amer- Available at http://www.ams.org/profession/data/

ica, Washington, D.C., 1997. Available at http://www.ams. annual-survey/annual-survey.

org/profession/data/cbms-survey/cbms-survey. [NCES] Projections of Educational Statistics to 2028, National Cen-

[CBMS2000] D. Lutzer, J. Maxwell, and S. Rodi, CBMS 2000: Statisti- ter for Educational Statistics, U.S. Department of Education.

cal Abstract of Undergraduate Programs in the Mathematical Available at https://nces.ed.gov/pubs2020/2020024.

Sciences in the United States, Fall 2000 CBMS Survey, Amer- pdf. ican Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2002. Avail- [NCES2] Table 303.70 from the NCES publication Digest of Educa-

able at http://www.ams.org/profession/data/cbms- tion Statistics: 2022. Available at https://nces.ed.gov/

survey/cbms-survey. programs/digest/d22/tables/dt22_303.70.asp.

[CBMS2005] D. Lutzer, S. Rodi, E. Kirkman, and J. Maxwell, CBMS [NCES3] Table 323.30 from the NCES publication Digest of Educa-

2005: Statistical Abstract of Undergraduate Programs in tion Statistics: 2022. Available at https://nces.ed.gov/

the Mathematical Sciences in the United States, Fall 2005 programs/digest/d22/tables/dt22_323.30.asp.

CBMS Survey, American Mathematical Society, Providence, [NCES4] Table 323.40 from the NCES publication Digest of Educa-

RI, 2007. Available at http://www.ams.org/profession/ tion Statistics: 2022. Available at https://nces.ed.gov/

data/cbms-survey/cbms-survey. programs/digest/d22/tables/dt22_323.40.asp.

[CBMS2010] R. Blair, E. Kirkman, and J. Maxwell, CBMS 2010: Statisti- [NCES5] Table 323.50 from the NCES publication Digest of Educa-

cal Abstract of Undergraduate Programs in the Mathematical tion Statistics: 2022. Available at https://nces.ed.gov/

Sciences in the United States, Fall 2010 CBMS Survey, Amer- programs/digest/d22/tables/dt22_323.50.asp.

ican Mathematical Society, Providence, RI, 2013. Avail- [NCES6] Table 324.30 from the NCES publication Digest of Educa-

able at http://www.ams.org/profession/data/cbms- tion Statistics: 2022. Available at https://nces.ed.gov/

survey/cbms-survey. programs/digest/d22/tables/dt22_324.30.asp.

[CBMS2015] R. Blair, E. Kirkman, and J. Maxwell, CBMS 2015: Statistical [NCES7] Table 324.35 from the NCES publication Digest of Educa-

Abstract of Undergraduate Programs in the Mathemati- tion Statistics: 2022. Available at https://nces.ed.gov/

cal Sciences in the United States, Fall 2015 CBMS Survey, programs/digest/d22/tables/dt22_324.35.asp.



405

Reference Survey Sponsor



This report presents the findings of an CBMS surveys have been conducted every five years (since 1965) with

NSF-supported, statistically designed survey the support of the National Science Foundation. The 2021 CBMS survey

of the undergraduate mathematical sciences is supported by NSF grant #DUE-1916764.

in the United States that was sponsored by The Conference Board of the Mathematical Sciences the Conference Board of the Mathematical Macalester College

Sciences (CBMS) in fall 2021. It includes 1600 Grand Avenue

detailed studies of undergraduate mathemat- Saint Paul, Minnesota 55105

ical sciences departments and programs in http://www.cbmsweb.org/

two- and four-year colleges and universities,

and of statistics departments at all degree

levels. Continuing the work of previous CBMS Member Organizations



on enrollments, undergraduate degrees American Mathematical Society granted, faculty demographics, teaching Association of Mathematics Teacher Educators CBMS survey reports, this report gives data American Mathematical Association of Two-Year Colleges formats, and pedagogical methods used; and

presents information on a family of special American Statistical Association

topics of current interest. Special topics for Association for Symbolic Logic

fall 2021 include: the mathematical educa- Association of State Supervisors of Mathematics

tion of teachers of pre-college mathematics/ Association for Women in Mathematics



distance learning courses and practices in Consortium for Mathematics and Its Applications distance learning courses, dual enrollment Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences statistics, percentage of departments offering Benjamin Banneker Association courses in mathematics and statistics, esti-

mates of post-graduation plans of graduates Institute of Mathematical Statistics

of four-year mathematics departments and Mathematical Association of America

statistics departments, and profiles of other National Museum of Mathematics

full-time faculty at four-year mathematics National Association of Mathematicians

and statistics departments. Chapter 1 pres- NCSM: Leadership in Mathematics Education ents integrated two- and four-year findings.





Chapter 2 presents data from the special National Council of Teachers of Mathematics


projects of CBMS 2021 for two- and four-year Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics

mathematics departments, while Chapters 3 Society of Actuaries

and 4 concentrate on four-year mathematics TODOS: Mathematics for All

and statistics departments, showing findings

by type of department (bachelor’s, master’s,



or doctoral). Chapter 5 explores the math- CBMS 2021 Steering Committee ematics and statistics courses of four-year

colleges and universities. Chapter 6 details Ed Aboufadel, Grand Valley State University, MI

enrollment, course offerings, and instructional Richelle Blair, Survey Associate Director for Two-Year Colleges,

practices in mathematics departments at Lakeland Community College (emerita), OH

two-year colleges, while Chapter 7 describes Elizabeth Burroughs, Montana State University, MT

faculty, administration, and special topics Beth Chance, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, CA



colleges. Ted Coe, NWEA, OR in mathematics departments at two-year

T. J. Hitchman, University of Northern Iowa, IA

Dennis Pearl, The Pennsylvania State University, PA

Emily Puckette, The University of the South, TN

April Strom, Maricopa Community Colleges, AZ

Linda Zientek, Sam Houston State University, TX



CBMSSURVEY/2021





