2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Finance for non-degree-granting private, not-for-profit institutions and public institutions using FASB Reporting

Standards

Overview

Overview

The purpose of the IPEDS Finance component is to collect basic financial information from items associated with the institution's General Purpose Financial Statements.

Data Reporting Reminder:

Report data to accurately reflect the time period corresponding with the IPEDS survey component, even if such reporting is seemingly inconsistent with prior-year reporting.

Changes to reporting:

No changes for the 2024-25 data collection period.

Resources:

To download the survey materials for this component: Survey Materials



If you have questions about completing this survey, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at (877) 225-2568.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 1/19 Finance - Private not-for-profit institutions and Public institutions using FASB standards

General Information - Fiscal Year and Audit: FASB-Reporting Institutions

Reporting Reminder:

To the extent possible, the finance data requested in this report should be provided from your institution's audited General Purpose Financial Statements (GPFS).

Please refer to the instructions specific to each screen of the survey for details and references.



1. Fiscal Year Calendar

This report covers financial activities for the 12-month fiscal year: (The fiscal year reported should be the most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024.)

Beginning: month/year (MMYYYY) Month: Year:

And ending: month/year (MMYYYY) Month: Year:



2. Audit Opinion

Did your institution receive an unqualified opinion on its General Purpose Financial Statements from your auditor for the fiscal year noted above? (If your institution is audited only in combination with another entity, answer this question based on the audit of that entity.)

Unqualified

Qualified (Explain in box below)

Don't know OR in progress (Explain in box below)



5. Does your institution account for Pell grants as pass through transactions (a simple payment on the student's account) or as federal grant revenues to the institution?

Pass through (agency)

Federal grant revenue

Does not award Pell grants



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 2/19 Part C-1 - Scholarships and Fellowships

Most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024

Do not report Federal Direct Student Loans (FDSL) anywhere in this section.

Line No. Scholarships and Fellowships Current year amount Prior year amount

01 Pell grants (federal)

02 Other federal grants (Do NOT include FDSL amounts)

03 Grants by state government

04 Grants by local government

05 Institutional grants (restricted)

06 Institutional grants (unrestricted)

Total revenue that funds scholarships and fellowships

07

CV=[C01+...+C06]

08 Discounts and Allowances applied to tuition and fees

09 Discounts and Allowances applied to auxiliary enterprise revenues

Total Discounts and Allowances,

10

CV=[C08 + C09]



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 3/19 Part C-2 - Sources of Discounts and Allowances

Most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024

Amount of Source Applied to:

Tuition and fees Auxiliary enterprises Total

Line Source of Discounts and

discounts allowances discounts allowances discounts allowances

No. Allowances

Current year Prior year Current year Prior year Current year Prior year

amount amount amount amount amount amount

12 Pell grants (federal)

Other federal grants (Do NOT

13

include FDSL amounts)

14 Grants by state government

15 Grants by local government

16 Endowments and gifts

Other institutional sources

17

CV=[C18-(C12+C13+ … +C16)]

Total (from Part C1 line 8, 9 and

18

10)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 4/19 Part D - Revenues by Source

Most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024

Line Temporarily Permanently Prior Year Total

Source of Funds Total Amount Unrestricted

No. restricted restricted Amount

Tuition and fees (net of allowance

01

reported in Part C-1, line 08)



Government Appropriations

02 Federal appropriations

03 State appropriations

04 Local appropriations



Government Grants and Contracts

Federal grants and contracts (Do not

05

include FDSL)

06 State grants and contracts

07 Local government grants and contracts



Private Gifts, Grants and Contracts

08 Private gifts, grants and contracts

08a Private gifts

Private grants and

08b

contracts

09 Contributions from affiliated entities



Other Revenue

10 Investment return

Sales and services of educational

11

activities

Other revenue

15

CV=[D16-(D01+...+D11)]



16 Total revenues and investment return

17 Net assets released from restriction 0

Net total revenues, after assets

18

released from restriction

19 12-month Student FTE from E12

Total revenues and investment return

20 per student FTE

CV={D16/D19]



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 5/19 Part E-1 - Expenses and Other Deductions: Functional Classification Part 1





Most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024


Report Total Operating AND Nonoperating Expenses in this section



Line No. Total amount Salaries and wages Prior Year Prior Year Expense: Functional Classifications Total Amount Salaries and wages (1) (2)

01 Instruction

02 Research

03 Public service

04 Academic support

05 Student services

06 Institutional support

Net grant aid to students,

08

net of discount/allowances

Other Functional Expenses and deductions

12

CV=[E13-(E01+...+E08)]

13 Total expenses and Deductions



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 6/19 Part E-2 - Expenses and Other Deductions: Natural Classification Part 2





Most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024


Line No. Expense: Natural Classifications Total Amount Prior year amount

13-2 Salaries and Wages(from Part E-1, line 13 column 2)

13-3 Benefits

13-4 Operation and Maintenance of Plant (as a natural expense)

13-5 Depreciation

13-6 Interest

Other Natural Expenses and Deductions

13-7

CV=[E13-1 - (E13-2 + ... + E13-6)]

Total Expenses and Deductions

13-1

(from Part E-1, Line 13)

14-1 12-month Student FTE (from E12 survey)

Total expenses and deductions per student FTE

15-1

CV=[E13/E14]



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 7/19 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data. The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS. Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 8/19 Summary





Finance Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



Core Revenues

Revenue Source Reported values Percent of total core revenues (%) Core revenues per FTE enrollment

Tuition and fees

Government grants and contracts

Private gifts, grants, and contracts

Investment income

Other core revenues

Total core revenues

Total revenues N/A

Other core revenues include federal appropriations; sales and services of educational activities; other operating and nonoperating sources; and other revenues and additions (e.g., capital appropriations, capital grants and gifts, etc.). Core revenues exclude revenues from auxiliary enterprises (e.g., bookstores, dormitories), hospitals, and independent operations. For institutions reporting in Full parent/child relationships, core revenues per FTE enrollment amounts will not be allocated to child institutions.



Core Expense

Expense function Reported values Percent of total core expenses (%) Core expenses per FTE enrollment

Instruction

Research

Public service

Academic support

Institutional support

Student services

Other core expenses

Total core expenses

Total expenses N/A

Other core expenses include scholarships and fellowships, net of discounts and allowances, and other expenses. Core expenses exclude expenses from auxiliary enterprises (e.g., bookstores, dormitories), hospitals, and independent operations. For institutions reporting in Full parent/child relationships, core expenses per FTE enrollment amounts will not be allocated to child institutions.



Calculated value

FTE enrollment

The full-time equivalent (FTE) enrollment used in this report is the sum of the institution’s FTE undergraduate enrollment and FTE graduate enrollment (as calculated from or reported on the 12-month Enrollment component). FTE is estimated using 12- month instructional activity (credit and/or clock hours). All doctor’s degree students are reported as graduate students.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 9/19 Finance for Non-Degree-Granting Not-for-Profit and Public Institutions Using FASB





Purpose of Component


Changes in Reporting for 2024-25

General Instructions

Reporting Period Covered

About the Data

Context Boxes

Coverage

What to Include

What Not to Include

Where to Get Help for Reporting

Where to Get Additional Help for Finance

Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Detailed Instructions

General Information

Part C: Scholarships and Fellowships

Part D: Revenues and Investment Return

Part E: Expenses and Other Deductions



Purpose of Component

The purpose of the IPEDS Finance component is to collect basic financial information from items associated with the institution's General Purpose Financial Statements (GPFS). Item areas include:

Scholarships and Fellowships

Revenues and Investment Return

Expenses and Other Deductions





Changes in Reporting

No changes for the 2024-25 data collection period.





General Instructions



Reporting Period Covered

The starting point for reporting should be amounts reported in the GPFS for the most recent fiscal year ending before October 1, 2024. For institutions with fiscal years ending on December 31, this would be the calendar year 2023.



About the Data

Data providers for this component should be familiar with college and university accounting policies and practices as described by the National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO). To provide additional help, accounting terms are underlined and linked to definitions found in the online glossary.

Four different types of data appear in this component. There are data:

Institutions provide from their GPFS and/or underlying records.

That are prior year data, shown in red, which can be used as a comparison with the current year's data being reported. That are carried forward from one part of the component to another part to ensure that the data are internally consistent. Calculated from the other data elements.

In the latter two cases, the data provider is requested to check that the carried forward data and the calculated data are consistent with the data found in the institution's GPFS. If the data carried forward or calculated are not consistent with the institution's GPFS, then an error in data entry may have occurred.





Context Boxes

Context boxes are provided to allow institutions to provide more information regarding survey component items. Note that some context boxes are posted on

the College Navigator Website, which is the college search tool offered by NCES. NCES will review entries in these context boxes for applicability and

appropriateness before posting them on the College Navigator Website; institutions should check grammar and spelling of their entries.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 10/19

Coverage





What to Include

The reporting entity's financial accounting policies and procedures should be the beginning basis for reporting to this IPEDS survey component. However, deviations from the GPFS may be required to respond to this IPEDS survey component. Some of these deviations include:

If financial categories in the institution’s GPFS are more aggregated than required for this IPEDS survey component, then use underlying institutional records to determine the necessary amounts.

If financial categories in the institution’s GPFS are more detailed than required, then combine the GPFS amounts and report only the combined number for this IPEDS survey component.

If amounts are reported in categories in the GPFS that differ from those required for the IPEDS survey, move those amounts to the IPEDS-requested categories.

Report all financial amounts in WHOLE DOLLARS only, omitting cents.

For any item on the survey component where exact data do not exist in the GPFS, please give estimates.



What NOT to Include

Do not report any projected amounts for future years. Do not make adjustments for prior-year corrections unless they are included as such corrections in the GPFS.





Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org

Web Tutorials

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools, and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g., academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Where to Get Additional Help for Reporting Data on the Finance Survey Component There may be places on and off your campus to get assistance in reporting.

Assistance on campus

Although institutions may be organized in different ways and use different titles for offices, an office on your campus that might help you to report data on this survey component might be called:

Office of the Chief Financial Officer

Office of Administration and Finance

Office of Finance

Office of Budget

Office of Financial Services

Office of the Comptroller (or Controller)

Office of Accounting

Assistance off campus

Additional references may be found in the National Association of College and University Business Officers’ (NACUBO) Financial Accounting and Reporting

Manual (FARM) which is available online. Additional information may be found at the NACUBO website (www.nacubo.org). Someone at your institutions in one or more of the offices listed above may already have access to the FARM.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS Use the Data portal

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

College Affordability and Transparency Center Website

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS Data Explorer

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education





Detailed Instructions



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 11/19 This section provides line-by-line instructions for each Part of the Finance Component.

In the instructions, numbers found in parentheses at the end of each line provide additional reference to paragraphs in the National Association of College and Universities' Business Officers' (NACUBO) Financial Accounting and Reporting Manual (FARM). There are also some references to the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS).



General Information

Fiscal Year: Enter the beginning and ending dates of the period covered for the reported financial data.

Audit Opinion: Check the appropriate box to indicate if the GPFS received an unqualified opinion from your auditors. If “qualified” is checked, please note in the context box the nature of the qualification. If the statements have not been audited, please check “Don’t know” and note in the context box that the GPFS are unaudited.

Pell Grants: Indicate whether the institution accounts for Pell Grants as pass-through payments or as federal revenue. If the institution does not award Pell Grants, select the applicable option.

Institutions that do receive Pell Grants have the option to report Pell Grants either as:

federal revenue and allowance to tuition and fees and/or auxiliary enterprises (for food and housing, books, meals, etc.). If the Pell Grant is counted as federal revenue, then there should be an offsetting discount/allowance to tuition and fees revenue and/or auxiliary enterprise revenue so that the Pell Grants are not being double counted in the institution's revenues.

OR

as a pass-through transaction. A pass-through transaction is essentially a payment on the student's account where the institution is purely processing the Pell Grant and those monies are not counted by the institution until they come in as a tuition payment from the student. The latter option is sometimes referred to as an agency transaction. With this option Pell Grants are not counted as federal revenues and are not considered to be a discount/allowance to tuition and fees or auxiliary enterprises.

Please note that regardless of how Pell Grants are treated for revenues or expenses, they should still be reported in Part C-1: Scholarships and Fellowships under Pell Grants.

Context: Enter in this space any explanations specified in other instructions or any other information critical to financial statement users.





Part C-1 - Scholarships and Fellowships

This section collects information about the sources of revenue that support (1) Scholarship and Fellowship expense and (2) discounts applied to tuition and fees and auxiliary enterprises.

For each source on lines 01–06, enter the amount of revenue received from each source for supporting scholarships and fellowships. Scholarships and fellowships include: grants-in-aid, trainee stipends, tuition and fee waivers, and prizes to students. Student grants do not include amounts provided to students as payments for teaching or research or as fringe benefits.

For lines 08 and 09, identify amounts that are reported in the GPFS as discounts and allowances only. "Discounts and allowance" means the institution displays the financial aid amount as a deduction from tuition and fees or a deduction from auxiliary enterprise revenues in its GPFS.

The allowance category is intended to be consistent with the definitions provided in the NACUBO Advisory Report Accounting and Reporting Scholarship

Allowances to Tuition and Other Fee Revenues by Higher Education (AR 97-1, January 17, 1997), which is available at the NACUBO website (www.nacubo.org). AR 97-1 states:

"A scholarship allowance is the difference between the stated charge for goods and services provided by the institution and the amount which is billed to students and/or third parties making payments on behalf of students. In considering what is or is not revenue, the following rule applies: amounts received to satisfy student tuition and fees will be reported as revenue only once (e.g. student fees, gifts, investment income) and only amounts received from students and third-party payers to satisfy tuition and fees will be recognized as tuition and fee revenue."

For more information on reporting discounts and allowances in scholarships and fellowships, access the (IPEDS Tip Sheet).



Refer to these specific instructions for more information about reporting student scholarships and fellowships.

01 – Pell grants (federal) – Report the total amount of Pell Grants awarded to the institution for the fiscal year. Private institutions generally report Pell Grants as agency transactions.

02 – Other federal grants – Report the amount awarded to the institution under federal student aid programs other than Pell, such as the Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grants (FSEOG), DHHS training grants (aid portion only), and federal portion of Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP (formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG). Include Higher Education Emergency Relief Act (HEERF) grants funded under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act, Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA), and American Rescue Plan (ARP) Act. Do not include institutional matching portions for any of these programs here, they should be reported under institutional grants. Do not include Federal Direct Student Loans, Federal Work Study, or federal veteran education benefits.

03 – Grants by state government – Report the amount of state grants received for funding scholarships and fellowships such as the state share of Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP (formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG). Report portable student aid from another state as a state source.

04 – Grants by local government – Report local government grants received for funding scholarships and fellowships.

05 – Institutional grants (funded) – Report amounts received from institutional resources restricted for the purpose of scholarships and fellowships, such as scholarships and fellowships funded by gifts or endowment return restricted for that purpose. Only if control over how the resources will be spent passes to the student (for example, the grant is paid directly to the student to use to defray the cost of off-campus housing) is the amount reported as revenue and expense.

06 – Institutional grants (unfunded) – Report amounts received from unrestricted institutional resources. Only if control over how the resources will be spent passes to the student (for example, the grant is paid directly to the student to use to defray the cost of off-campus housing) is the amount reported as revenue and expense.

07 – Total revenue that funds scholarships and fellowships – This calculated value is the sum of lines 01 through 06. Because this is a calculated value, data providers are advised to check this amount with the corresponding amount on their GPFS or underlying records. If these amounts differ materially, the data provider is advised to check the other amounts provided on this screen for data entry errors.

08 – Discounts and allowances applied to tuition and fees – Enter the amount of allowances (scholarships) applied to tuition and fees. The amount on this line, when added to the amount in Part D, line 01 equals gross tuition and fees.

09 – Discounts and allowances applied to auxiliary enterprise revenues – Enter the amount of allowances (scholarships) applied to auxiliary enterprise revenues (e.g., dormitory charges). The amount on this line, when added to the amount in Part D, line 12 equals gross auxiliary enterprise revenue.

10 – Total discounts and allowances – This line is generated by summing the discounts and allowances reported to both tuition & fees and auxiliary



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 12/19 enterprises entered in lines 8 and 9.

Part C-2 – Sources of Discounts and Allowances

This part is intended to report details about sources of discounts and allowances.

For each source on lines 01 – 05, enter the amount of the scholarships and fellowships source applied to (1) tuition and fees discounts and allowances and (2) auxiliary enterprises discounts and allowances. The amount of the source applied to total discounts and allowances will be automatically calculated for you in the 3rd column. Line 18 has been preloaded from data entered in Part C-1: Scholarships and Fellowships, line 08 for the 1st column "Tuition and fees discounts & allowances," line 09 for the 2nd column "Auxiliary enterprises discounts & allowances," and line 10 for the 3rd column "Total discounts & allowances."





Part D – Revenues and Investment Return

PLEASE COMPLETE PART B and Part C BEFORE PROVIDING DATA FOR PART D.

This part is intended to report revenues by source.

The revenues and investment return reported in this part should agree with the revenues reported in the institution’s GPFS.

All revenue source categories are intended to be consistent with the definitions provided in Chapter 4 (Accounting for Private Colleges and Universities) of the NACUBO FARM.

Exclude from revenue (and expenses) interfund or intraorganizational charges and credits. Interfund and intraorganizational charges and credits include interdepartmental charges, indirect costs, and reclassifications from temporarily restricted net assets. Revenues are reported by restriction (columns) and by source (rows).

Column 1, Total Amount – This column is calculated by the sum of the columns 2 through 4.

Column 2, Unrestricted – Report revenues that are not subject to limitations by a donor-imposed restriction.

Column 3, Temporarily Restricted – Report revenues that are subject to limitation by donor specification as to use or the time when use may occur (such as a later period of time or after specified events have occurred).

Column 4, Permanently Restricted – Report revenues that must be maintained in perpetuity due to a donor-imposed restriction.

For institutions receiving American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) revenues during the reporting period, report these amounts as part of line 16, Total revenues and investment return. If the GPFS shows a separate amount for ARRA revenues in another revenue category (e.g., Federal grants and contracts) remove that amount from that other category for IPEDS reporting.

Refer to these specific instructions for more information about reporting revenues and investment return.

01 – Tuition and fees (net of allowance reported in Part C-1, line 08) – Enter the amount of tuition and educational fees, net of any allowances applied in the GPFS. Include in this amount all fees for continuing education programs, conferences, and seminars. (FARM para. 460)

Government Appropriations

02 – Federal appropriations – Enter all amounts received from the federal government through a direct appropriation of Congress, except grants and contracts, which should be reported on line D05. An example of a federal appropriation is a federal land-grant appropriation. Do not include Pell Grants on this line. Do not include any ARRA revenues on this line (see line 15 in this part).

03 – State appropriations – Enter all amounts received from a state government through a direct appropriation of its legislative body, except for state grants and contracts, which should be reported on line 06. An example of a state appropriation that should be entered on line 03 is an annual state appropriation for operating expenses of the institution. Do not include any ARRA revenues on this line (see line 15 in this part).

04 – Local appropriations – Enter all amounts received from a local government (i.e., city and/or county) through a direct appropriation of its legislative body, except for local grants and contracts, which should be reported on line 07. An example of a local appropriation that should be entered on line 04 is an annual local appropriation for operating expenses of the institution.

Government Grants and Contracts

05 – Federal grants and contracts – Enter all revenues from federal agencies that are for specific undertakings such as research projects, training projects, and similar activities, including contributions from federal agencies. If federal Pell and similar student aid grants are treated as agency transactions in your GPFS, they are excluded from this amount. If federal Pell and similar student aid grants are treated as student aid expenses or as allowances when awarded, include the grant revenue on this line and in Part C. Include Higher Education Emergency Relief Act (HEERF) grants funded under the CARES, CRRSA, and ARP Acts. Do not include any ARRA revenues on this line (see line 15 in this part).

06 – State grants and contracts – Enter all revenues from state government agencies that are for specific undertakings such as research projects, training projects, and similar activities, including contributions from state agencies. If state grants for student aid are treated as agency transactions in your GPFS, they are excluded from this amount. If state grants for student aid are treated in your GPFS as student aid expenses or as allowances when awarded, include the grant revenue on this line and in Part C-1. Do not include any ARRA revenues on this line (see line 15 in this part).

07 – Local government grants and contracts – Enter all revenues from local government agencies that are for specific undertakings such as research projects, training projects, and similar activities, including contributions from local agencies. If local grants for student aid are treated as agency transactions in your GPFS, they are excluded from this amount. If local grants for student aid are treated in your GPFS as student aid expenses or as allowances when awarded, include the grant revenue on this line and in Part C-1.

Private Gifts, Grants, and Contracts

08a – Private gifts – Enter revenues from private (non-governmental) entities including revenues received from gift or contribution nonexchange transactions (including contributed services) except those from affiliated entities, which are entered on line 09. Includes bequests, promises to give (pledges), gifts from an affiliated organization or a component unit not blended or consolidated, and income from funds held in irrevocable trusts or distributable at the direction of the trustees of the trusts. Includes any contributed services recognized (recorded) by the institution.

08b – Private grants and contracts – Enter revenues from private (non-governmental) entities that are for specific research projects, other types of programs, or for general institutional operations (if not government appropriations). Examples are research projects, training programs, and similar activities for which amounts are received or expenses are reimbursable under the terms of a grant or contract, including amounts to cover both direct and indirect expenses.

09 – Contributions from affiliated entities – Enter all revenues received from non-consolidated affiliated entities, such as fund raising foundations, booster clubs, other institutionally-related foundations, and similar organizations created to support the institution or organizational components of the institution.

Other Revenue

10 – Investment return – Enter all investment income (i.e., interest, dividends, rents and royalties), gains and losses (realized and unrealized) from holding investments (regardless of the nature of the investment), student loan interest, and amounts distributed from irrevocable trusts held by others (collectively referred to as "investment return"). Changes in the value of interest rate swaps should be included in this amount.

11 – Sales and services of educational activities – Enter all revenues derived from the sales of goods or services that are incidental to the conduct of instruction, research or public service, and revenues of activities that exist to provide instructional and laboratory experience for students and that incidentally create goods and services that may be sold. Examples include film rentals, scientific and literary publications, testing services, university

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 13/19 presses, dairies, and patient care clinics that are not part of a hospital. The revenue of patient care clinics that are part of a hospital is included in Part D, line 13.

15 – Other revenue - This calculated value is generated using this formula:

D15 = D16 – (D01 + … + D11)

Amounts which should NOT be included in this generated number are gains or other unusual or nonrecurring items that are required to be included in Part B, such as gains on the sale of plant assets, actuarial gains, and extraordinary gains.

Because this is a calculated value, data providers are advised to compare this amount with the corresponding amount from their GPFS or underlying records. If these amounts differ materially, the data provider is advised to check the other amounts provided on this screen for data entry errors. For institutions that received American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) revenues during the reporting period, allow these amounts to be reported through this calculated value by including the amount in line 16.

16 – Total revenues and investment return - Enter all revenues that agree with the revenues recognized in the institution's GPFS. This amount should include ARRA revenues received by the institution, if any.

17 – Net assets released from restriction – Enter all revenues resulting from the reclassification of temporarily restricted assets or permanently restricted assets

18 – Net total revenues, after assets released from restriction – This calculated value is generated using this formula:

D18 = D16 + D17

19 – 12-month Student FTE from E12 – This number for full-time equivalent (FTE) student enrollment is carried over from the 12-month enrollment survey.

20 – Total revenues and investment return per Student FTE – This amount is generated by dividing line 16 by line 19. This calculated value is used by the system to compare the data reported by the institution to the data of institutions that are in the same sector (e.g., public/private, 4-year/2-year) to see if the calculated value is an extreme value that is too high or low. While it is not anticipated that your institution would have the same overall revenues, this comparison may be useful for ensuring that all appropriate revenues have been included in the finance survey component, or excluded when appropriate.





Part E-1 – Expenses and Other Deductions: Functional Classification

PLEASE COMPLETE PART B BEFORE PROVIDING DATA FOR PART E.

Part E is intended to report expenses by function. All expenses recognized in the GPFS should be reported using the expense functions provided on lines 01–08 and 13. These functional categories are consistent with Chapter 4 (Accounting for Independent Colleges and Universities) of the NACUBO FARM.

Institutions that do not have access to FARM can refer to Appendix B of the NACUBO Advisory Report 2010-1, Public Institutions: Methodologies for Allocating Depreciation, Operation and Maintenance of Plant, and Interest Expenses to Functional Expense Categories for more detailed information on the expense categories. Although this document was written for public institutions, the expenditure definitions are applicable to private institutions also. The advisory is

available here.

The total for expenses on line 13 should agree with the total expenses reported in your GPFS including interest expense and any other non-operating expense.

Do not include losses or other unusual or nonrecurring items in Part E. Operation and maintenance expenses are no longer reported as a separate functional expense category. Instead these expenses are to be distributed among the other functional expense categories.

Expense by Functional Classification

Column 1, Total amount - Enter the total expense for each applicable functional category listed on lines 01–08. Total expenses, line 13, should agree with the total expenses reported in your GPFS.

Column 2, Salaries and wages – This column describes the natural classification of salary and wage expenses incurred in each functional category. For this classification, enter the amount of salary and wage expenses for the function identified in lines 01-08 and 13. Do NOT include Operation and maintenance of plant (O&M) expenses in this category because O&M expenses are reported in a separate natural classification category.



Refer to these specific instructions for more information about reporting expenses.

01 – Instruction – Enter the instruction expenses of the colleges, schools, departments, and other instructional divisions of the institution and expenses for departmental research and public service that are not separately budgeted. The instruction category includes general academic instruction, occupational and vocational instruction, special session instruction, community education, preparatory, developmental and adult basic education, and tutorial instruction. Include expenses for both credit and non-credit activities. Exclude expenses for academic administration if the primary function is administration (e.g., academic deans). Such expenses should be entered on line 04. (FARM para. 703.4)

02 – Research – Enter the expenses for activities specifically organized to produce research outcomes and either commissioned by an agency external to the institution or separately budgeted by an organizational unit within the institution. The category includes institutes and research centers, and individual and project research. Do not report nonresearch sponsored programs (e.g., training programs) on this line. Training programs generally are reported on line 01 (Instruction). (FARM para. 703.5)

03 – Public service – Enter the expenses specifically for public service and for activities established primarily to provide noninstructional services beneficial to groups external to the institution. Examples are seminars and projects provided to the particular sectors of the community. Include expenses for community services, cooperative extension services, and public broadcasting services. (FARM para. 703.6)

04 – Academic support – Enter the expenses for support services that are an integral part of the institution’s primary mission of instruction, research, or public service and that are not charged directly to these primary programs. Include expenses for libraries, museums, galleries, audio/visual services, academic administration, and formally organized and/or separately budgeted academic personnel development, academic computing support, course and curriculum development. Include expenses for medical, veterinary and dental clinics if their primary purpose is to support the institutional program, that is, they are not part of a hospital. (FARM para. 703.7)

05 – Student services – Enter the expenses for admissions, registrar activities and activities whose primary purpose is to contribute to students emotional and physical well-being and to their intellectual, cultural and social development outside the context of the formal instructional program. Examples are career guidance, counseling, financial aid administration, student records, athletics, and student health services, except when operated as a self-supporting auxiliary enterprise. (FARM para. 703.8)

06 – Institutional support – Enter the expenses for the day-to-day operational support of the institution. Include expenses for general administrative services, executive direction and planning, legal and fiscal operations, administrative computing support, and public relations/development. (FARM para. 703.9)

08 – Net grant aid to students (net of tuition and fee allowances) - Enter on this line ONLY scholarships and fellowships recognized as expenses in your GPFS. Do not include Federal Work Study expenses on this line. Work study expenses should be reported within the function where the student worked. Whereas in the past, most student awards were recorded as expenses under this classification, most student awards are now reported as either scholarship allowances or agency transactions. Student awards, made from contributed funds or grant funds, that are under the control of the institution (the institution decides who gets the award) result in allowances that reduce tuition or auxiliary enterprise revenue. Student awards, made from grant funds, that are made to students identified by the grantor are considered agency transactions and do not result in either revenues or expenses.

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 14/19 Scholarships and fellowships in the form of allowances applied to tuition and fees should be reported in Part C, line 09, and not included in Part E, line 08. Scholarships and fellowships in the form of allowances applied to auxiliary services should be reported in Part C, line 9, and not included in Part E, line 08. (FARM para. 703.10)

According to NACUBO Advisory Report 97-1 (January 17, 1997), scholarships and fellowships are "expenses to the extent that the organization incurs incremental expense in providing goods and services." Thus payments made by the institution to students or third parties in support of the total cost of education are expenses if those payments are made for goods and services NOT provided by the institution. Examples include payments for services to third parties (including students) for off-campus housing or for the cost of board not provided by institutional contract meal plans.

12 - Other Functional Expenses and deductions – This calculated value is generated using this formula:

E12 = E13 – (E01 + … + E08)

Because this is a generated number, data providers are advised to compare this amount with a corresponding amount in the institution's GPFS. If these amounts differ materially, the data provider is advised to check the other amounts provided on this screen for data entry errors.

13 – Total expenses and Deductions – Enter total expenses. The amount should represent total expenses recognized in the institution's GPFS. Enter in column 2 the total amount of salaries and wages expense incurred by the institution.





Part E-2 - Expenses and Other Deductions: Natural Classification

This part is intended to collect expenses by natural classification. Do NOT include Operation and maintenance of plant (O&M) expenses in Salaries and Wages, Benefits, Depreciation, Interest, or Other Natural Expenses because O&M expense is reported in its own separate natural classification category.

Expense by Natural Classification

13-2, Salaries and wages – This line is the total of salary and wage expenses incurred in all of the functional categories from the previous page. It has been carried over from Part E-1, Column 2 line 13.

13-3, Benefits - Enter the total amount of benefits expenses incurred.

13-4, Operation and maintenance of plant - This amount is used to show the distribution of operation and maintenance of plant expenses. Enter in this column the allocated amount of operation and maintenance of plant expenses for all functions listed on lines 01-12 in Part E-1.

13-5, Depreciation - Enter the total amount of depreciation incurred.

13-6, Interest - Enter in the total amount of interest incurred on debt.

13-7, All other natural expenses and deductions - This column will be calculated by the survey program as the difference between the total amount entered in 13-1 and the sum of 13-2 through 13-6. Please check the calculated amount for accuracy to determine that no keying errors have occurred.

13-1, Total expenses and deductions - This amount is carried forward from Part E-1, line 13, and should agree with the total expenses reported in your GPFS.

14-1, 12-month Student FTE from E12 – This number for full-time equivalent (FTE) student enrollment is carried over from the 12-month enrollment survey.

15-1, Total Expenses and Deductions per Student FTE - This amount is generated by dividing line 13-1 by line 14-1. This calculated value is used by the system to compare the data reported by the institution to the data of institutions that are in the same sector (e.g., public/private, 4-year/2-year) to see if the calculated value is an extreme value that is too high or low. While it is not anticipated that your institution would have the same overall expenses, this comparison may be useful for ensuring that all appropriate expenses have been included in the finance survey component, or excluded when appropriate.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 15/19 Glossary

Term Definition

A functional expense category that includes expenses of activities and services that support the institution's primary missions of instruction, research, and public service. It includes the retention, preservation, and display of educational materials (for example, libraries, museums, and galleries); organized activities that provide support services to the academic functions of the institution (such as a demonstration school associated with a college of education or veterinary and dental clinics if their primary purpose is to support the instructional program); media such as audiovisual services; academic administration

Academic support (including academic deans but not department chairpersons); and formally organized and/or separately budgeted academic

personnel development and course and curriculum development expenses. Also included are information technology expenses related to academic support activities; if an institution does not separately budget and expense information technology resources, the costs associated with the three primary programs will be applied to this function and the remainder to institutional support. Institutions include actual or allocated costs for operation and maintenance of plant, interest, and depreciation.

That part of a scholarship or fellowship that is used to pay institutional charges such as tuition and fees or food and housing

Allowances

charges.

An audit, performed by external (or outside) auditors, that usually consists of a one-page "opinion" letter on the general-purpose

financial statements. The "opinion" paragraph of the letter usually states that "In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position as of (date) and the results of operations for the year then ended, in

Audit opinion conformity with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States." If the auditor cannot state completely the

substance of the previous "opinion" sentence, then the auditor will add a phrase such as "...except for..." and state the basis for the exception. When the auditor includes exceptions to the opinion, the opinion is considered to be a "qualified opinion;" when no such exceptions are included, the opinion is considered to be an "unqualified opinion."

Revenues generated by or collected from the auxiliary enterprise operations of the institution that exist to furnish a service to students, faculty, or staff, and that charge a fee that is directly related to, although not necessarily equal to, the cost of the

Auxiliary enterprises revenues

service. Auxiliary enterprises are managed as essentially self-supporting activities. Examples are residence halls, food services, student health services, intercollegiate athletics, college unions, college stores, and movie theaters.

Revenues from non-consolidated affiliated entities, such as fund raising foundations, booster clubs, other institutionally-related

Contributions from affiliated foundations, and similar organizations created to support the institution or organizational units of the institution. General

entities purpose financial statements for FASB institutions include a separate line for these revenues; GASB institutions classify such

revenues as gifts.

Total expenses for the essential education activities of the institution. Core expenses for public institutions reporting under GASB standards include expenses for instruction, research, public service, academic support, student services, institutional support, scholarships and fellowships, and other operating and nonoperating expenses. Core expenses for FASB (primarily

Core expenses

private, not-for-profit and for-profit) institutions include expenses on instruction, research, public service, academic support, student services, institutional support, net grant aid to students, and other expenses. For both FASB and GASB institutions, core expenses exclude expenses for auxiliary enterprises (e.g., bookstores, dormitories), hospitals, and independent operations.

Total revenues for the essential education activities of the institution. Core revenues for public institutions (using the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) standards) include tuition and fees; government appropriations (federal, state, and local); government grants and contracts; private gifts, grants, and contracts; investment income; other operating and nonoperating sources; and other revenues and additions. Core revenues for private, not-for-profit and public institutions reporting under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) standards include tuition and fees; government appropriations

Core revenues (federal, state, and local); government grants and contracts; private gifts, grants, and contracts; investment return; sales and

services of educational activities; and other sources. Core revenues for private, for-profit institutions reporting under FASB standards include tuition and fees; government appropriations (federal, state, and local); government grants and contracts; private grants and contracts; net investment income; sales and services of educational activities; and other sources. In general, core revenues exclude revenues from auxiliary enterprises (e.g., bookstores, dormitories), hospitals, and independent operations.

The allocation or distribution of the cost of capital assets, less any salvage value, to expenses over the estimated useful life of

Depreciation the asset in a systematic and rational manner. Depreciation for the year is the amount of the allocation or distribution for the

year involved.

That part of a scholarship or fellowship that is used to pay institutional charges such as tuition and fees or food and housing

Discounts and allowances

charges.

Transfers of money or property from the Federal government to the education institution without a requirement to receive

Federal grants anything in return. These grants may take the form of grants to the institutions to undertake research or they may be in the form

of student financial aid. (Used for reporting on the Finance component)

A part-time work program awarding on- or off-campus jobs to students who demonstrate financial need. FWS positions are primarily funded by the federal government (federal share), but are also partially funded by other organizations, including the institution (non-federal share). FWS is awarded to eligible students by the college as part of the student's financial aid package.

Federal Work Study (FWS)

The maximum FWS award is based on the student's financial need, the number of hours the student is able to work, and the amount of FWS funding available at the institution. This is a type of Title IV Aid, but it is not considered grant or loan aid to students.

Fringe benefits Cash contributions in the form of supplementary or deferred compensation other than salary. Excludes the employee's

contribution. Employee fringe benefits include retirement plans, social security taxes, medical/dental plans, guaranteed disability



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 16/19

income protection plans, tuition plans, housing plans, unemployment compensation plans, group life insurance plans, worker's compensation plans, pension, and other benefits in-kind with cash options.

A functional expense classification is a method of grouping expenses according to the purpose for which the costs are incurred.

Functional Expense

The classifications tell why an expense was incurred rather than what was purchased. (NACUBO FARM section 700)

Revenues received by an institution through acts of a legislative body, except grants and contracts. These funds are for meeting

Government appropriations

current operating expenses and not for specific projects or programs. The most common example is a state's general

(revenues)

appropriation. Appropriations primarily to fund capital assets are classified as capital appropriations.

Revenues from governmental agencies and nongovernmental parties that are for specific research projects, other types of programs , or for general institutional operations (if not government appropriations). Examples are research projects, training programs, student financial assistance, and similar activities for which amounts are received or expenses are reimbursable

Grants and contracts under the terms of a grant or contract, including amounts to cover both direct and indirect expenses. Includes Pell Grants and (revenues) reimbursement for costs of administering federal financial aid programs. Grants and contracts should be classified to identify

the governmental level - federal, state, or local - funding the grant or contract to the institution; grants and contracts from other sources are classified as nongovernmental grants and contracts. GASB institutions are required to classify in financial reports such grants and contracts as either operating or nonoperating.

Grants by local government Local government grants include scholarships or gift-aid awarded directly to the student. (Used for reporting on the Finance (student aid) component)

Grant monies provided by the state such as Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships (LEAP) program (formerly State

Grants by state government

Student Incentive Grant program or SSIG); merit scholarships provided by the state; and tuition and fee waivers for which the

(student aid)

institution was reimbursed by a state agency. (Used for reporting on the Finance component)

Scholarships and fellowships awarded to students from institutional resources that are restricted to student aid. Private

Institutional grants

institutions generally report these grants as allowances. If control over these resources passes to the student, the amount is

(restricted) (allowances)

reported as an expense. (Used for reporting under FASB Standards on the Finance component.)

Scholarships and fellowships awarded to students from unrestricted institutional resources. Private institutions generally

Institutional grants

report these grants as allowances. If control over these resources passes to the student, the amount is reported as an expense.

(unrestricted) (allowances)

(Used for reporting under FASB Standards on the Finance component.)

A functional expense category that includes expenses for the day-to-day operational support of the institution. Includes expenses for general administrative services, central executive-level activities concerned with management and long range planning, legal and fiscal operations, space management, employee personnel and records, logistical services such as

Institutional support

purchasing and printing, and public relations and development. Also includes information technology expenses related to institutional support activities. If an institution does not separately budget and expense information technology resources, the IT costs associated with student services and operation and maintenance of plant will also be applied to this function.

A functional expense category that includes expenses of the colleges, schools, departments, and other instructional divisions of the institution and expenses for departmental research and public service that are not separately budgeted. Includes general academic instruction, occupational and vocational instruction, community education, preparatory and adult basic education, and regular, special, and extension sessions. Also includes expenses for both credit and noncredit activities. Excludes expenses for

Instruction

academic administration where the primary function is administration (e.g., academic deans). Information technology expenses related to instructional activities if the institution separately budgets and expenses information technology resources are included (otherwise these expenses are included in academic support). Institutions include actual or allocated costs for operation and maintenance of plant, interest, and depreciation.

The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), conducted by the NCES, began in 1986 and involves annual

institution-level data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation Agreement with the Office of

Integrated Postsecondary Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report

Education Data System data using a web-based data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional

(IPEDS) Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Admissions (ADM); Student Financial Aid (SFA); Human

Resources (HR) composed of Employees by Assigned Position, Fall Staff, and Salaries; Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates

(GR); Outcome Measures (OM); Finance (F); and Academic Libraries (AL).

The price paid (or received) for the use of money over a period of time. Interest income is one component of investment

Interest

income. Interest paid by the institution is interest expense.

Investment return Income from assets including dividends, interest earnings, royalties, rent, gains (losses) etc.

Revenues from local government agencies that are for training programs and similar activities for which amounts are received or expenditures are reimbursable under the terms of a local government grant or contract. These amounts can be treated as an

Local government grants and

allowance, an agency transaction, or as a student aid expense in the institution's General Purpose Financial Statements

contracts (revenues)

(GPFS) and are reported differently depending on their treatment. Generally, however, private institutions report these grants

as allowances when applied to the student's account and as local grant revenues when received.

A natural expense classification is a method of grouping expenses according to the type of costs that are incurred. The

Natural Expense

classifications tell what was purchased rather than why an expense was incurred. (NACUBO FARM section 700)

The excess of assets over liabilities or the residual interest in the institution's assets remaining after liabilities are deducted.

The change in net assets results from revenues, gains, expenses, and losses. FASB institutions classify net assets into three

Net Assets categories: permanently restricted, temporarily restricted, and unrestricted. This term is similar to the "Net position" term used

by GASB institutions.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 17/19

Net grant aid to students The portion of scholarships and fellowships granted by an institution that exceeds the amount applied to institutional charges

(expenses) such as tuition and fees or food and housing. The amount reported as expense excludes allowances.

An expense category that includes expenses for operations established to provide service and maintenance related to campus grounds and facilities used for educational and general purposes. Specific expenses include: janitorial and utility services; repairs and ordinary or normal alterations of buildings, furniture, and equipment; care of grounds; maintenance and operation of buildings and other plant facilities; security; earthquake and disaster preparedness; safety; hazardous waste disposal; property,

Operation and maintenance of

liability, and all other insurance relating to property; space and capital leasing; facility planning and management; and central

plant (O&M)

receiving.

This expense does include amounts charged to auxiliary enterprises, hospitals, and independent operations. Also includes information technology expenses related to operation and maintenance of plant activities if the institution separately budgets

and expenses information technology resources (otherwise these expenses are included in institutional support).

Federal monies awarded to the institution under federal government student aid programs, such as the Federal Supplemental

Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOG), DHHS training grants (aid portion only), the Leveraging Education Assistance Partnership (LEAP) program (formerly State Student Incentive Grant program or SSIG), and other federal student aid programs. Pell Grants are not included in this classification. Note: if the federal government selects the student recipients and simply

Other federal grants

transmits the funds to the institution for disbursement to the student, the amounts are not considered as revenues and

subsequently there are no discounts and allowances or scholarships and fellowships expenses. If the funds are made available

to the institution for selection of student recipients, then the amounts received are considered as nonoperating revenues and subsequently as discounts and allowances or scholarships and fellowships expenses.

The sum of operating and nonoperating expenses not classified as salaries and wages, benefits, operation and maintenance of

Other Natural Expenses and plant, interest, or depreciation. Prior to fiscal year 2016, this value included operation and maintenance of plant expenses. This Deductions category can include bad debts, income taxes, changes in value in split interest agreements, or changes in environmental

liability obligations.

(Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart I, as amended.) Provides grant assistance to eligible undergraduate

Pell Grant program

postsecondary students with demonstrated financial need to help meet education expenses.

Revenues from private (non-governmental) entities including revenues received from gift or contribution nonexchange transactions (including contributed services) except those from affiliated entities. Includes bequests, promises to give (pledges),

Private gifts (Revenues) gifts from an affiliated organization or a component unit not blended or consolidated, and income from funds held in irrevocable

trusts or distributable at the direction of the trustees of the trusts. Includes any contributed services recognized (recorded) by the institution.

Revenues from private donors for which no legal consideration is involved and from private contracts for specific goods and

Private gifts, grants and services provided to the funder as stipulation for receipt of the funds. Includes only those gifts, grants, and contracts that are contracts (revenues) directly related to instruction, research, public service, or other institutional purposes. Includes monies received as a result of

gifts, grants, or contracts from a foreign government. Also includes the estimated dollar amount of contributed services.

Revenues from private (non-governmental) entities that are for specific research projects, other types of programs, or for general

Private grants and contracts institutional operations (if not government appropriations). Examples are research projects, training programs, and similar (Revenues) activities for which amounts are received or expenses are reimbursable under the terms of a grant or contract, including

amounts to cover both direct and indirect expenses.

A functional expense category that includes expenses for activities established primarily to provide noninstructional services beneficial to individuals and groups external to the institution. Examples are conferences, institutes, general advisory service, reference bureaus, and similar services provided to particular sectors of the community. This function includes expenses for

Public service community services, cooperative extension services, and public broadcasting services. Also includes information technology

expenses related to the public service activities if the institution separately budgets and expenses information technology resources (otherwise these expenses are included in academic support). Institutions include actual or allocated costs for operation and maintenance of plant, interest, and depreciation.

A functional expense category that includes expenses for activities specifically organized to produce research outcomes and commissioned by an agency either external to the institution or separately budgeted by an organizational unit within the institution. The category includes institutes and research centers, and individual and project research. This function does not

Research include nonresearch sponsored programs (e.g., training programs). Also included are information technology expenses related

to research activities if the institution separately budgets and expenses information technology resources (otherwise these expenses are included in academic support.) Institutions include actual or allocated costs for operation and maintenance of plant, interest, and depreciation.

Amounts paid as compensation for services to all employees - faculty, staff, part-time, full-time, regular employees, and student employees. This includes regular or periodic payment to a person for the regular or periodic performance of work or a service

Salaries and wages

and payment to a person for more sporadic performance of work or a service (overtime, extra compensation, summer compensation, bonuses, sick or annual leave, etc.).

Sales and services of Revenues from the sales of goods or services that are incidental to the conduct of instruction, research or public service. educational activities Examples include film rentals, sales of scientific and literary publications, testing services, university presses, dairy products, (revenues) machine shop products, data processing services, cosmetology services, and sales of handcrafts prepared in classes.

Outright grants-in-aid, trainee stipends, tuition and fee waivers, and prizes awarded to students by the institution, including Pell

grants. Awards to undergraduate students are most commonly referred to as "scholarships" and those to graduate students as "fellowships." These awards do not require the performance of services while a student (such as teaching) or subsequently as a

Scholarships and fellowships

result of the scholarship or fellowship. The term does not include loans to students (subject to repayment), College Work-Study

Program (CWS), or awards granted to a parent of a student because of the parent's faculty or staff status. Also not included are awards to students where the selection of the student recipient is not made by the institution.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 18/19

State and local monies awarded to the institution under state and local student aid programs, including the state portion of

State and local government

Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships (LEAP) program (formerly State Student Incentive Grant program or SSIG).

grants

(Used for reporting on the Student Financial Aid component)

State grants (revenues) A sum of money or property bestowed on a postsecondary institution by a state government.

A functional expense category that includes expenses for admissions, registrar activities, and activities whose primary purpose is to contribute to students emotional and physical well-being and to their intellectual, cultural, and social development outside the context of the formal instructional program. Examples include student activities, cultural events, student newspapers, intramural athletics, student organizations, supplemental instruction outside the normal administration, and student records.

Student services

Intercollegiate athletics and student health services may also be included except when operated as self-supporting auxiliary enterprises. Also may include information technology expenses related to student service activities if the institution separately budgets and expenses information technology resources (otherwise these expenses are included in institutional support.) Institutions include actual or allocated costs for operation and maintenance of plant, interest, and depreciation.

An institution that has a written agreement with the Secretary of Education that allows the institution to participate in any of the Title IV federal student financial assistance programs (other than the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP,

Title IV institution

formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG and the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership or NEISP programs).

The amount of tuition and required fees covering a full academic year most frequently charged to students. These values represent what a typical student would be charged and may not be the same for all students at an institution. If tuition is

Tuition and fees (published

charged on a per-credit-hour basis, the average full-time credit hour load for an entire academic year is used to estimate average

charges)

tuition. Required fees include all fixed sum charges that are required of such a large proportion of all students that the student who does not pay the charges is an exception.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=5&instructionid=30086&formid=86 19/19





