2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Completions for all institutions

Overview

Completions Overview

Welcome to the IPEDS Completions survey component. The Completions component is one of several IPEDS components that is conducted during the Fall data collection period. It collects the number of degrees and certificates awarded by field of study, level of award, race/ethnicity, and gender. The reporting period for the Completions component is during the 12-month time period beginning July 1 of the previous calendar year and ending June 30 of the current calendar year; therefore, for this year’s Completions component, the reporting period is between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024. The Completions component is also collecting the number of students (e.g., completers) who earned awards between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

Data Reporting Reminder:

Report data to accurately reflect the time period corresponding with the IPEDS survey component, even if such reporting is seemingly inconsistent with prior-year reporting.

Changes in reporting

The following changes were implemented for the 2024-25 data collection period:

Added a question on whether institutions had zero students that were conferred an award between July l, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

Use the 2020 CIP codes for this year’s data collection.

The CIP 2020 Website includes a list of new CIP codes, a list of deleted CIP codes, a list of moved CIP Codes, and an online crosswalk of the 2010 CIP and 2020 CIP.

Some common Completions component errors include the following:

Including award levels on your current year Completions that were not reported on your previous year's (PY) Institutional Characteristics (IC). [Award levels in the PY IC component cannot be changed; therefore, contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568 if you need assistance.] Forgetting to select CIP codes for new programs of study that are offered by the institution, but do not have completions for the reporting period. Forgetting to enter in zero in at least one of the cells for CIP codes that do not have completions. Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbaccalaureate undergraduate programs, and students in these programs are undergraduate students.

Keep in mind that some information provided by institutions on the Completions component appear in the College Navigator, which is a major tool used by consumers searching for information about postsecondary education. It is therefore vitally important that you include accurate information about your institution.

Survey materials can be downloaded using the following link: Survey Materials.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 1/16 [Institutions complete this screen for each CIP code they select]

CIP Data

CIP Data

Institutions must report, by award level, whether programs are offered as distance education programs. If a program has a traditional offering and a distance education option, completions should be reported regardless of whether or not the program was completed through distance education.

Awards conferred between July1, 2023 and June 30, 2024

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

Check the box below only if there were zero students that were conferred an award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

No awards were conferred between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

Total

Men Men (PY) Women Women (PY)

(men+women)

U.S. Nonresident

Hispanic/Latino

American Indian or Alaska Native

Asian

Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific

Islander

White

Two or more races

Race and ethnicity unknown

TOTAL AWARDS



Is at least one program within this CIP code offered as a distance education program?

All programs in this CIP code in this award level can be completed entirely via distance education.

Some programs in this CIP code in this award level can be completed entirely via distance education.

None of the programs in this CIP code in this award level can be completed entirely via distance education.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 2/16 [Graduate students is applicable to institutions with graduate students only]

All Completers

All Completers

Institutions must report the following information. (Some data will be pre-populated from the completions by CIP code data.)

Number of students by gender and race and ethnicity earning an award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024. Count each student only once, regardless of how many awards he/she earned. The intent of this screen is to collect an unduplicated count of total numbers of completers.

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

Men Women

Total Students

Number of Total

Number of Students Total Awards

Students Awards

U.S. Nonresident

Hispanic/Latino

American Indian or Alaska Native

Asian

Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

White

Two or more races

Race and ethnicity unknown

TOTAL AWARDS

PY TOTAL AWARDS



Gender Unknown or Another Gender than Provided Categories

The purpose of this supplemental section is to determine whether institutions are able to report the number of students for whom gender is unknown and the number of students for whom gender does not align with the 'Men' and 'Women' categories. Note that these students must still be allocated into the 'Men' and 'Women' categories in all other sections of the survey component.

Institutions should not ask students that do not select a binary gender to allocate themselves to a binary gender category; it is up to the institution to allocate unknown students and students that indicate another gender into the binary categories throughout the forms where required. One method commonly used by institutions is to allocate these students to the binary categories required in other parts of the form using the proportion of men to women reported. The 'gender unknown' category is to report students for whom the institution does not know a gender.

Is your institution able to report another gender for the July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2024 reporting period? If you indicate 'No, my institution is not able to report another gender,' leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank (i.e., do not report 0). If you indicate 'No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students,' your institution collects data on another gender, but some cells have a value of less than 5 students, do not report the data and leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank. If you indicate 'Yes', but no students identified as another gender, please enter '0'.

Undergraduate students:

No, my institution is not able to report another gender (do not report)

No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students (do not report)

Yes

Graduate students:

No, my institution is not able to report another gender (do not report)

No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students (do not report)

Yes

Of the total students reported, how many students did you allocate to a binary gender category (Men/Women) because their gender was unknown or another gender than the provided categories?

Number of students

Undergraduate Graduate

Total PY Total

students students

Grand total

Gender unknown (i.e., gender information is not known or not collected).

Another gender (i.e., gender information is known but does not fall into either of the mutually exclusive binary categories provided [Men/Women]).

Total of Gender unknown + Another gender



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 3/16

Total of Students for whom gender is known and falls into one of the mutually

exclusive binary categories provided [Men/Women]



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 4/16 [Institutions complete this page for each award level they report]





Completers by Level


Completers by Level

Institutions must report the number of students who earned an award by level. This screen will be shown for each of the following consolidated award levels for which there is a reported completion:

Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of:

Less than 300 clock hours, or

Less than 9 SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

Less than 13 QUARTER credit hours

Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of:

300-899 clock hours, or

9-29 SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

13-44 QUARTER credit hours

Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of:

900 or more clock hours, or

30 or more SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

45 or more QUARTER credit hours

Associate's degrees

Bachelor's degrees

Master's degrees

Doctor's degrees

Postbaccalaureate and post-master's certificates

[Award Level]

Number of students by gender, by race and ethnicity, and by age earning this award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024. Each student should be counted once per award level. For example, if a student earned a master's degree and a doctor's degree, he/she should be counted once in master's and once in doctor's. A student earning two master's degrees should be counted only once.

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

By Gender

Number of Students Total Awards

Men

Women

TOTAL

PY TOTAL



By Race/Ethnicity

Number of Students Total Awards

U.S. Nonresident

Hispanic/Latino

American Indian or Alaska Native

Asian

Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

White

Two or more races

Race and ethnicity unknown

TOTAL



By Age

Number of Students Total Awards

Under 18

18-24

25-39

40 and Above

Age Unknown

TOTAL



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 5/16





Prepared by




Prepared by

Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data.

The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS.

Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and

submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 6/16 Summary





Completion Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.

Summary of Completions Data

Number of Completions

Award Level

1st major 2st major

1a - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- less than 300 clock hours, or

- less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- less than 13 quarter credit hours

1b - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 300-899 clock hours, or

- 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 13-44 quarter credit hours

2 - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or

- at least 30 but less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours

3 - Associate's degree

4 - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 1,800 or more clock hours, or

- 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 90 or more quarter credit hours

5 - Bachelor's degree or equivalent

6 - Postbaccalaureate certificate

7 - Master's degree

8 - Post-master's certificate

17 - Doctor's degree - research/scholarship

18 - Doctor's degree - professional practice

19 - Doctor's degree - other

Total number of degrees and certificates



Summary of Completers Data

Number of Students

Men Women Total

All Completers



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 7/16 Instructions for the IPEDS Completions Component





Purpose of Component


Changes in Reporting

General Instructions

Reporting Period Covered

Context Boxes

Coverage

Where to Get Help

Where the Data Will Appear

Detailed Instructions

Reporting Persons by Racial/Ethnic Category

Program Selection Screen

Crosswalk between the IPEDS Award Levels (used on CIP data screens) and the Consolidated Award Levels (used on Completers by

Level screens)

Award Levels

I. "CIP Data" Screens

II. "Completers" screens

II.a. "All Completers" screen

II.b. "Completers by Level" screen

II.b.1. "Completers by Level - Award Level" screen



Purpose of Component

The purpose of the Completions component of IPEDS is to collect data on the number of awards conferred by postsecondary institutions during the 12-month time period beginning July 1 of the previous calendar year and ending June 30 of the current calendar year. The awards reported range from subbaccalaureate certificates to doctor's degrees and must be recognized postsecondary credentials conferred by the postsecondary institution as the result of completion of an academic or occupational/vocational program of study. The program's instructional activity can be measured in credit hours, clock hours, or some other unit of measurement. Postsecondary credentials must be recognized by the institution’s appropriate governing body. Data are collected by race/ethnicity and gender for each award level within each program (as defined by 6-digit CIP codes). Data are collected for both first and second major fields of study. A new purpose involves collecting data on whether a program is offered as a distance education program.

Beginning with the 2012-13 IPEDS Completions component, the purpose is also to collect the number of students (e.g., completers) by gender and race/ethnicity who earned an award during the 12-month time period beginning July 1 of the previous calendar year and ending June 30 of the current calendar year. (The intent of this new item is to collect an unduplicated count of total numbers of completers.)

Also, the Completions component collects the number of completers by award level for the same reporting period previously mentioned.





Changes in reporting

The following changes were implemented for the 2024-25 data collection period:

Added a question on whether institutions had zero students that were conferred an award between July l, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

Institutions should use 2020 CIP codes for the 2024-25 data collection. The CIP 2020 Website includes a list of new CIP codes, a list of deleted CIP codes, a list of moved CIP Codes, and an online crosswalk of the 2010 CIP and 2020 CIP.





General Instructions



Reporting Period Covered

Report all degrees and other recognized postsecondary credentials conferred by your institution between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024. Also, report students (e.g., completers) who earned the related degrees and other recognized postsecondary credentials from your institution between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.





Context Boxes

Context boxes are provided to allow institutions to provide more information regarding survey component items. Note that some context boxes are posted on

the College Navigator Website, which is the college search tool offered by NCES. NCES will review entries in these context boxes for applicability and

appropriateness before posting them on the College Navigator Website; institutions should check grammar and spelling of their entries.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 8/16





Coverage




What to Include

Recognized postsecondary credentials conferred as the result of completion of an academic or occupational/vocational program of study. (Note that only CIP codes describing academic or occupational/vocational programs of study are valid CIP codes on the Completions component.) The instructional activity completed as part of the program of study must be credit-bearing, but can be measured in credit hours, clock hours, or some other unit of measurement. Awards conferred by the postsecondary institution.

Awards conferred between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

Multiple awards conferred to a single student.

What to Exclude

Recognized postsecondary credentials earned, but not yet conferred.

Recognized postsecondary credentials conferred by branches of your institution located in foreign countries. Honorary degrees.

Recognized postsecondary credentials conferred by an entity other than the postsecondary institution (such as the state, or an industry certificate). Recognized postsecondary credentials earned as the result of an avocational, basic skills, residency, or other program not recognized by IPEDS as academic or occupational/vocational.

Examples of recognized postsecondary credentials to exclude:

Merit

Completion

Attendance

ESL

Developmental/college preparatory

Noncredit





Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org

Web Tutorials

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools, and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g., academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS Use the Data portal

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

College Affordability and Transparency Center Website

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS Data Explorer

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education





Detailed Instructions



Reporting Persons by Racial/Ethnic Category (1997 OMB)

This information is being collected in compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and Sec. 421(a) (1) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act. These instructions correspond with the Final Guidance on Maintaining, Collecting, and Reporting Racial and Ethnic Data to the U.S. Department of Education, published in the Federal Register on October 19, 2007. Method of collection - Institutions must collect race and ethnicity information using a 2-question format. The first question is whether the respondent is Hispanic/Latino. The second question is whether the respondent is from one or more races from the following list: American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and White. Institutions should allow students and staff to self-identify their race and ethnicity. For further details on the guidance for collecting these data, please see the full Federal Register notice. Method of reporting aggregate data - Institutions must report aggregate data to the U.S. Department of Education using the NINE categories below. Racial/ethnic designations are requested only for United States citizens, residents, and other eligible non-citizens. Eligible noncitizens include all students who completed high school or a GED equivalency within the United States (including DACA and undocumented students) and who were not on an F-1 non-immigrant student visa at the time of high school graduation. More information about other eligible (for financial aid purposes) non-citizens is available at

https://studentaid.gov/understand-aid/eligibility/requirements/non-us-citizens.

Hispanic or Latino, regardless of race

For Non-Hispanic/Latino individuals:

American Indian or Alaska Native

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 9/16





Asian


Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

White

Two or more races

In addition, the following categories may be used:

U.S. Nonresident

Race and ethnicity unknown

Racial/ethnic descriptions - Racial/ethnic designations as used in this survey do not denote scientific definitions of anthropological origins. The categories are:

Hispanic or Latino- A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race.

American Indian or Alaska Native- A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America) who

maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community attachment.

Asian- A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian Subcontinent, including, for example,

Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam.

Black or African American- A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander- A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.

White - A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa. Other descriptive categories

U.S. Nonresident - A person who is not a citizen or national of the United States and who is in this country on a visa or temporary basis and does not

have the right to remain indefinitely. Do not include DACA, undocumented, or other eligible noncitizens in this category. NOTE - U.S. Nonresidents are to

be reported separately, in the boxes provided, rather than included in any of the seven racial/ethnic categories.

Race and ethnicity unknown - This category is used only if the person did not select EITHER a racial or ethnic designation.





Program Selection Screen

This list represents all the programs, by 6-digit CIP code and award levels, reported on your institution's previous submission. From this screen you may add or delete 6-digit programs, double majors, and award levels.

NOTE: Program reporters need to check to be sure that the CIP codes that you listed in your responses to the 2023-24 IC questions D7 and D8 are included in the July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024 IPEDS Completions CIP List.

Adding new programs - To add a new program, click the 'Search/Add Program' button at the top of your list of programs. You then have several ways to proceed:

a. Enter all or parts of the program name and click the 'Search' key. This will bring up all the fields and programs with the text in the title. Make your

selection from this list.

b. As an alternative, you can click the first letter of the name of the program from the menu of letters. For example, if you want to add Philosophy, click the

'P'. This brings up a list of all fields beginning with 'P'; then select the field name. After this, you may add programs within the field.

c. If you know the 2-digit or 4-digit CIP for the broad group of programs, enter the portion of CIP code and click 'Search' key. This will bring up a list of all

the programs within the selected group.

After selecting the program, designate the appropriate award level(s).

If you cannot find a CIP code to describe your program:

Select the general category (xx.xx01 or xx.0000) if the program follows an unspecialized, broad program of study within the area described by the 4-digit

or 2-digit CIP Code.

Select the "Other" code (xx.9999 or xx.xx99) if your program of study is specialized within the area described by the two digit CIP code, but there is not a

specific 6-digit CIP code which adequately describes the instructional program.

DO NOT develop any new CIP codes.

Deleting a program - If your institution no longer offers a specific program at any award level, click on the 'Delete program' icon. A field or program should NOT be deleted if you expect to report completions for it in future years. See "CIP Data" for programs with no completions for the reporting year. You will have to confirm any deletions.

Adding/deleting award level or 2nd major - If you need to add or delete one or more award levels or 2nd majors for a given program, click on the 'Add/Delete Award Levels' icon. This activates a pop-up window with all the possible award levels and two columns of boxes, one for 1st majors and the other for 2nd majors. The initial check marks reflect what was reported the previous year. If awards were conferred in this program for the current collection at an award level not indicated, click the corresponding box (either 1st or 2nd major). If your institution no longer awards degrees/certificates at an award level and expects not to award at that level in the future, or no longer awards a 2nd major at the level, un-click the box. NOTE: If a 1st major is deleted for an award level that also had 2nd major checked, the 2nd major will be automatically deleted also. This also removes any degree counts already entered. Once you have made all the necessary changes, click the 'Save' button and the changes will be reflected on the selection screen. In addition, users may enter context on this page. These are intended to provide users a place to indicate characteristics of the institution which may make applying IPEDS definitions and instructions problematic. The context should not be used for explanations of edit reports, as there are other locations specifically for that purpose.

After completing this page, click 'Save'.

In order to begin entering completions data, click on the award level number for the appropriate 1st or 2nd major and award level. This will bring up a CIP Data page.





Classification of degrees according to major field of study

Remember: 2020 CIP Codes are now being used to describe field of study. Please consult the 2020 CIP Website to assist you in selecting relevant new fields of study.

Specific Classification - Classify degrees and awards as specifically as the list of CIP programs permits. Thus, report a bachelor's degree in Business

Administration with a business economics major in Business/Managerial Economics (52.0601), not in Business/Commerce, General (52.0101).

Degree of Doctor of Philosophy - Classify the Doctor of Philosophy degree according to the student's major field of study. Thus, a Ph.D. in chemistry

should be reported as a degree in chemistry, not as one in philosophy.

Majors of Students Prepared to Teach - The general rule is to classify degrees according to the major area of specialization. This means that degrees

to students who may be qualified to teach an academic subject (such as English, biology, or foreign languages) but did not pursue a program solely for the

purpose of teaching, should be reported in English Language and Literature/Letters (23.xxxx), Biological and Biomedical Sciences (26.xxxx), and Foreign

Languages, Literatures and Linguistics (16.xxxx) respectively, not in Education (13.xxxx). On the other hand, the degrees of students who have completed

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 10/16

a program that is specifically preparing them to teach special subjects (such as agriculture, art, music, etc.) should be reported in Agricultural Teacher Education (Vocational) (13.1301), Art Teacher Education (13.1302), Music Teacher Education (13.1312), etc. Split Majors - When a student graduates with a split major, report the award in the area of greater specialization, if possible. Otherwise, the award should be reported in the program closest to the combination. If neither of these approaches can be used, the award should be reported as follows:

If the split major involves two program specialties within the same program category, use the "General" or "Multiple emphasis" program specialty. For example, a split major involving two languages should be reported in Foreign Languages and Literatures, General (16.0101); a major in sociology and political science should be reported under Social Sciences, General (45.0101). If the split major involves program specialties from different program categories, the award should be reported under the one of greater specialization.

Double Majors - When a student receives a single degree with majors in two (or more) program specialties, report the degree in one program (1st major); you should report the second program specialty as a "second major." As with the other degrees/awards, those programs for which your institution reported 2nd majors the previous year will already be indicated on the selection screen. To make changes in second majors for a program, click the 'Add/Delete Award Levels' icon.

NOTE: Second majors may only be reported for associate's, bachelor's, master's, and/or doctor's degrees. Two Degrees - If a student actually receives two degrees based on two independent courses of study, (e.g., one in Business and Management and one in Foreign Languages), report each degree under the appropriate program category.

Arts and Sciences or General Programs Not Organized in Occupational Curriculums - These are certificates or degrees based on less than four years of work in the arts and sciences or general programs not organized in occupational curriculums. Such awards should be reported under one of the Liberal Arts and Sciences, General Studies and Humanities (24.01xx) programs.

General Majors - The term "general major" is used to designate general, unspecialized curriculums within an area of study. Ordinarily, degrees based on a general major should be reported in one of the "general" programs.

Multi/Interdisciplinary Studies - These refer to fields of study that represent two or more broad program categories which are found in different 2-digit CIP Code Series; e.g., Mathematics and Computer Science (30.0801). These are found within the 2-digit CIP "30". If reporting awards under similar fields of study that are not in the current CIP listing, use "30.9999", making sure to specify the exact name of the multi/interdisciplinary study.





Crosswalk between the IPEDS Award Levels (used on CIP data screens) and the Consolidated Award Levels (used on Completers by Level screens)

IPEDS Award Levels Consolidated Award Levels

(used on CIP data screens) (used on Completers by Level screen)

1a - Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of

- less than 300 clock hours, or - less than 300 clock hours, or

- less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or - less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- less than 13 quarter credit hours - less than 13 quarter credit hours

1b - Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of

- 300-899 clock hours, or - 300-899 clock hours, or

- 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or - 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 13-44 quarter credit hours - 13-44 quarter credit hours

2 - Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of

- at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or - 900 or more clock hours, or

- at least 30 but less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, or - 30 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or

- at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours - 45 or more quarter credit hours

4 - Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of

- 1,800 or more clock hours, or

- 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 90 or more quarter credit hours

3 - Associate's degree Associate's degrees 5 - Bachelor's degree Bachelor's degrees 7 - Master's degree Master's degrees 17 - Doctor's degree - research/scholarship; Doctor's degrees 18 - Doctor's degree - professional practice;

19 - Doctor's degree - other

6 - Postbaccalaureate certificate;

Postbaccalaureate and post-master's certificates

8 - Post-master's certificate

Definitions of the award levels listed above in the left column can be found in the IPEDS Glossary (https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/glossary).



Award levels

The twelve award levels under which completions can be reported are:

1a - Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of

Less than 300 clock hours, or

Less than 9 SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

Less than 13 QUARTER credit hours

1b - Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of

300-899 clock hours, or

9-29 SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

13-44 QUARTER credit hours

2 - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

At least 900, but less than 1800 clock hours, or

At least 30, but less than 60 SEMESTER OR TRIMESTER HOURS

At least 45, but less than 90 QUARTER HOURS

3 - Associate's degree

4 - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

1800 or more clock hours, or

60 or more SEMESTER OR TRIMESTER credit hours, or

90 or more QUARTER credit hours

5 - Bachelor's degree

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 11/16

6 - Postbaccalaureate certificate

7 - Master's degree

8 - Post-master's certificate

17 - Doctor's degree - research/scholarship

18 - Doctor's degree - professional practice

19 - Doctor's degree - other





I. CIP Data Screens

Each program/award level on the Program Selection screen (including 1st and 2nd majors where selected) has a corresponding CIP Data screen. At the top are the CIP code and name of the program, followed by the award level and 1st/2nd major of the current screen on the next line. Be sure to include every program offered at your institution, regardless of whether it currently has students enrolled, or if students in the program are eligible to receive Title IV federal aid.

When reporting distance education offerings, do not include remote learning implemented in response to the coronavirus pandemic unless the program anticipates maintaining this modality permanently. Allowing program completion via distance education is not the same as having planned full distance education programs.

Programs with completions - Enter the number of awards conferred during the reporting period in the appropriate boxes and refer to the section called,

"Reporting Persons by Racial/Ethnic Category," as necessary. To the right of each data entry cell, the corresponding number from your institution's previous submission is displayed in red.

Programs with no completions - If there were zero students that were conferred an award in a particular program/award level during July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024, but your institution still offers the program at that level, check box 'No awards were conferred between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024' on the data page. Do not delete a program/award level if you expect to have completions in future years. NOTE: All awards must be reported as whole numbers. Do not report fractions of an award. Distance Education

For each 6-digit CIP code and program level/length combination at your institution, please select one of the following three options (it is possible that one or more programs may be reported under the same CIP):

All programs in the CIP can be completed entirely online.

At least one program in the CIP can be completed entirely online.

None of the programs in this CIP can be completed entirely online.

NOTE: Requirements for coming to campus for orientation, testing, or academic support services do not exclude a program from being classified as exclusively distance education. Similarly, if instructional portions of the program are entirely online, but there is a requirement to complete a practicum, residency, or internship, the program is still considered entirely distance education.

You may click the 'Next Screen' button, and the system will bring up the next screen in the following order: (1) the 2nd major for the current CIP/award

level if one was designated; (2) the next award level for this program; or (3) the next program in the list of CIP codes on the left.

You may go directly to another program or field by clicking on the appropriate CIP code on the left. In this case, the first award level for that CIP will

appear.

You may click on the 'Selection screen' at the top of the list of CIP codes. This will return you to the Selection Screen page.

On the last program/award level screen (based on CIP code and award level) after entering and saving the data, you may browse and/or print the totals

by gender, award level, and race/ethnicity by clicking the 'Summary Report' button. When you are satisfied, click the 'Proceed' button which will return

you to the CIP Selection screen.





II. "Completers" screens



II.a. "All Completers" screen

Enter the number of students who earned an award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024 by gender and race and ethnicity. Count each student only

once for each award level, regardless of how many awards he/she earned. The intent of this screen is to collect an unduplicated count of total numbers of

completers.

(Students counted on the "All Completers" screen should be the students who earned the awards.)

For the 'All Completers' screen that is collected by gender and race/ethnicity, allocate students for whom gender is unknown or another gender than the

binary gender categories provided. After that screen, you will be asked to report how many students you had to allocate to a binary gender category

(Men/Women) because their gender was unknown or another gender than the provided categories (Men/Women). If your institution is not able to report

another gender, please select 'No, my institution is not able to report another gender' to the question and leave the cells in the 'Another gender' row blank

(do not input 0s). If you institution collects data on another gender, but some cells will have a value of less than 5 students, please select 'No, some cells

will have a value of less than 5 students,' do not report the data and leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank. If you indicate 'Yes', but no

students identified as another gender, please enter '0' in the appropriate row(s)..



II.b. "Completers by Level" screen

For each award level for which you have reported completions, enter the number of students represented by those completions. The number of students

who earned this award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024 should be entered by gender, by race and ethnicity, and by age. The date should be the

student's age at the time the award was conferred.

Each student should be counted only once per award level. For example, if a student earned a master's and doctor's degree, he/she should be counted once

in master's and once in doctor's. A student who earned two master's degrees should be counted only once.

The total number of students reported by gender must equal the total number of students reported by race and ethnicity. Each of the two previously

mentioned totals must equal the total number of students reported by age.



II.b.1. "Completers by Level" screen - Award Levels

The following eight award levels are applicable to the "Completers by Level" screen:



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 12/16

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of: less than 300 clock hours, less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or less than 13 quarter credit hours

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of: 300-899 clock hours, 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or 13-44 quarter credit hours Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of: 900 or more clock hours, 30 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or 45 or more quarter credit hours

Associate's degrees

Bachelor's degrees

Master's degrees

Doctor's degrees

Postbaccalaureate and post-master's certificates

While there are eight award levels applicable to the "Completers by Level" screen (e.g., number of students) in this section (II), there are 12 award

levels applicable to the "CIP Data" screen (e.g., number of awards) in section I. Some of the award levels associated with the "CIP Data" screen have been combined to form the eight award levels for the "Completers by Level" screen. Consequently, in the "Completers by Level" section, screens will be

displayed based on the award levels for which completions have been reported in the "CIP Data" section. [Refer to the "Crosswalk between the IPEDS

Award Levels (used on CIP data screens) and the Consolidated Award Levels (used on Completers by Level screens) " for additional information.]





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 13/16 Glossary

Term Definition

American Indian or Alaska A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North and South America (including Central America) who maintains Native cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community attachment.

A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian Subcontinent, including, for

Asian

example, Cambodia, China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, the Philippine Islands, Thailand, and Vietnam.

Associate's degree An award that normally requires at least 2 but less than 4 years of full-time equivalent college work.

An award (baccalaureate or equivalent degree, as determined by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education) that normally

requires at least 4 but not more than 5 years of full-time equivalent college-level work. This includes all bachelor's degrees

Bachelor's degree conferred in a 5-year cooperative (work-study) program. A cooperative plan provides for alternate class attendance and

employment in business, industry, or government; thus, it allows students to combine actual work experience with their college studies. Also includes bachelor's degrees in which the normal 4 years of work are completed in 3 years.

Black or African American A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa.

A recognized postsecondary credential that is conferred upon the satisfactory completion of a postsecondary education

Certificate

program.

CIP code A six-digit code in the form xx.xxxx that identifies instructional program specialties within educational institutions.

A taxonomic coding scheme for secondary and postsecondary instructional programs. It is intended to facilitate the

Classification of Instructional organization, collection, and reporting of program data using classifications that capture the majority of reportable data. The Programs (CIP) CIP is the accepted federal government statistical standard on instructional program classifications and is used in a variety of

education information surveys and databases.

A period of time consisting of (1) A 50- to 60-minute class, lecture, or recitation in a 60-minute period; (2) A 50- to 60-minute

Clock hour faculty-supervised laboratory, shop training, or internship in a 60-minute period; or (3) Sixty minutes of preparation in a

correspondence course.

A student who receives a degree, diploma, certificate, or other recognized postsecondary credential. In order to be considered a

Completer

completer, the degree/award must actually be conferred.

Contact hour (old definition) A unit of measure that represents an hour of scheduled instruction given to students. Also referred to as clock hour.

A unit of measure representing the equivalent of an hour (50 minutes) of instruction per week over the entire term. It is applied

Credit hour toward the total number of credit hours needed for completing the requirements of a degree, diploma, certificate, or other

recognized postsecondary credential.

Diploma A official document certifying the successful completion of a prescribed program of studies.

Education that uses one or more technologies to deliver instruction to students who are separated from the instructor and to support regular and substantive interaction between the students and the instructor synchronously or asynchronously.

Technologies used for instruction may include the following: Internet; one-way and two-way transmissions through open

Distance education

broadcasts, closed circuit, cable, microwave, broadband lines, fiber optics, satellite or wireless communication devices; audio conferencing; and video cassette, DVDs, and CD-ROMs, if the cassette, DVDs, and CD-ROMs are used in a course in conjunction with the technologies listed above.



A course in which the instructional content is delivered exclusively via distance education. Requirements for coming to campus

Distance education course

for orientation, testing, or academic support services do not exclude a course from being classified as distance education.

A program for which all the required coursework for program completion is able to be completed via distance education

Distance education program

courses.

A doctor's degree that does not meet the definition of a doctor's degree - research/scholarship or a doctor's degree -

Doctor's degree-other

professional practice.

A doctor's degree that is conferred upon completion of a program providing the knowledge and skills for the recognition, credential, or license required for professional practice. The degree is awarded after a period of study such that the total time to

Doctor's degree-professional the degree, including both pre-professional and professional preparation, equals at least six full-time equivalent academic years.

practice Some of these degrees were formerly classified as first-professional and may include: Chiropractic (D.C. or D.C.M.); Dentistry

(D.D.S. or D.M.D.); Law (J.D.); Medicine (M.D.); Optometry (O.D.); Osteopathic Medicine (D.O); Pharmacy (Pharm.D.); Podiatry (D.P.M., Pod.D., D.P.); or, Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.), and others, as designated by the awarding institution.

A Ph.D. or other doctor's degree that requires advanced work beyond the master's level, including the preparation and defense of

Doctor's degree- a dissertation based on original research, or the planning and execution of an original project demonstrating substantial artistic research/scholarship or scholarly achievement. Some examples of this type of degree may include Ed.D., D.M.A., D.B.A., D.Sc., D.A., or D.M, and others,

as designated by the awarding institution.

Hispanic/Latino A person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 14/16

The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), conducted by the NCES, began in 1986 and involves annual

institution-level data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation Agreement with the Office of

Integrated Postsecondary Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report

Education Data System data using a web-based data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional

(IPEDS) Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Admissions (ADM); Student Financial Aid (SFA); Human

Resources (HR) composed of Employees by Assigned Position, Fall Staff, and Salaries; Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates

(GR); Outcome Measures (OM); Finance (F); and Academic Libraries (AL).

An award that requires the successful completion of a program of study of at least the full-time equivalent of 1 but not more

than 2 academic years of work beyond the bachelor's degree.

Master's degree

Some of these degrees, such as those in Theology (M.Div., M.H.L./Rav) that were formerly classified as "first-professional", may require more than two full-time equivalent academic years of work.

Native Hawaiian or Other

A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Hawaii, Guam, Samoa, or other Pacific Islands.

Pacific Islander

An award that requires completion of an organized program beyond the master's degree, but does not meet the requirements of

Post-master's certificate

academic degrees at the doctor's level.

An award that requires completion of an organized program of study beyond the bachelor's. It is designed for persons who have completed a baccalaureate degree, but does not meet the requirements of a master's degree.

Postbaccalaureate certificate

NOTE: Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbacalaureate undergraduate programs, and students in these programs are undergraduate students.

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (1,800 An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

or more clock hours, 60 or degree) designed for completion in 1,800 or more clock hours, or 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or 90 or more

more semester or trimester quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, references to academic year equivalencies were removed from all levels of

credit hours, or 90 or more subbaccalaureate certificates.

quarter credit hours)

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (300- An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

899 clock hours, 9-29 degree) designed for completion in at least 300 but less than 900 clock hours, or in at least 9 but less 30 semester or trimester

semester or trimester credit credit hours, or in at least 13 but less than 45 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, this award level category was one of

hours, or 13-44 quarter credit two added options for reporting certificates of less than one academic year in length.

hours)

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (900- An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

1,800 clock hours, 30-60 degree) designed for completion in at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or in at least 30 but less than 60 semester or

semester or trimester credit trimester credit hours, or in at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, references to academic year

hours, or 45-90 quarter credit equivalencies were removed from all levels of subbaccalaureate certificates.

hours)

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (less An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

than 300 clock hours, 9 degree) designed for completion in less than 300 clock hours, or in less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or less than

semester or trimester credit 13 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, this award level category was one of two added options for reporting certificates

hours, or 13 quarter credit of less than one academic year in length.

hours)

Race and ethnicity unknown The category used to report students or employees whose race and ethnicity are not known.

Categories developed in 1997 by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) that are used to describe groups to which individuals belong, identify with, or belong in the eyes of the community. The categories do not denote scientific definitions of anthropological origins. The designations are used to categorize U.S. citizens, residents, and other eligible non-citizens.

Individuals are asked to first designate ethnicity as:

- Hispanic or Latino or

- Not Hispanic or Latino

Race/ethnicity

Second, individuals are asked to indicate all races that apply among the following:

- American Indian or Alaska Native

- Asian

- Black or African American

- Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

- White

A recognized postsecondary credential includes any credential that is recognized by the institution’s appropriate governing body and received after completion of an academic program or that is awarded in recognition of an individual's attainment of

Recognized postsecondary

measurable technical or industry/occupational skills necessary to obtain employment or advance within an industry/occupation.

credential

These technical or industry/occupational skills generally are based on standards developed or endorsed by employers or industry associations.

Title IV institution An institution that has a written agreement with the Secretary of Education that allows the institution to participate in any of the

Title IV federal student financial assistance programs (other than the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP,

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 15/16

formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG and the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership or NEISP programs).

A person who is not a citizen or national of the United States and who is in this country on a visa or temporary basis and does

U.S. Nonresident

not have the right to remain indefinitely.

White A person having origins in any of the original peoples of Europe, the Middle East, or North Africa.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 16/16





