2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Institutional Characteristics for less-than-2-year institutions



Overview

IC Overview

Welcome to the Institutional Characteristics (IC) survey component. This survey component collects directory information, including data that are key to reporting throughout the IPEDS data collection and must be completed and locked before any other survey can be started. Any errors in the IC survey component can lead to further errors in the data reporting process, so please be very careful in reporting these data correctly and contact the IPEDS Help Desk (877.225.2568) if you have any questions.



This survey component also collects basic institutional information including student services and athletic association.



The IC should be completed based on the current year. Some IC questions may require nothing more than a confirmation if nothing has changed. Please make

changes as necessary, and complete items that do need a response (e.g., enrollment questions).



Remember, it is the responsibility of the keyholder to provide NCES with accurate data about the institution. Please never hesitate to call the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568 and ask for help to make sure that you are reporting correctly!



Because of the importance of the IC data in Section 1 (Header Information) in determining the screens you will receive in other survey components, be sure to report correctly, and to contact the IPEDS Help Desk if you have ANY questions about what you need to report.

The IC data in Section 1(Header Information) affect other survey components in the following ways:

The Educational Offerings question verifies your institution's inclusion in IPEDS.

The Control and Levels page is key to all survey components, especially to Finance (F) and Graduation Rates (GR). Additionally, this is important information

for students, impacts many federal reports, and is used in placing institutions in appropriate net price groupings.

Calendar system selection impacts student charges data reported in Cost (CST), Fall Enrollment (EF), GR, and Student Financial Aid (SFA) data.

Enrollment levels impact student charges in CST and enrollment categories in the EF survey component.

The Open Admission question determines whether the Admissions component will be required in the Winter collection.

The Academic Libraries expenses question determines whether the Academic Libraries component will be required in the Spring collection. This question is

asked of degree-granting institutions only.

The operations question for new institutions determines reporting of 12-month Enrollment (E12).



Data Reporting Reminder:

Report data to accurately reflect the time period corresponding with the IPEDS survey component, even if such reporting is seemingly inconsistent with prior-

year reporting.



Changes to reporting:

The following changes have been made for 2024-25 collection:

The IC survey includes elements of the IC Header and the IC survey components. IC no longer includes Cost data; those data are collected in the new Cost

survey component.



Resources:

To download survey materials package for this component: Survey Materials



If you have questions about completing the survey, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 1/23

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 2/23 Section 1 – Header Information





Section 1- Header Information: Part A - Educational Offerings

1. Which of the following types of for-credit instruction/programs are offered by your institution? [Check one or more]

If your institution does not offer occupational or academic programs, you are not expected to complete this or any other IPEDS survey component.



Occupational, may lead to a certificate, degree, or other recognized postsecondary credential

Academic, may lead to a certificate, degree, or diploma

Recreational or avocational (leisure) programs

Adult basic or developmental instruction or high school equivalency

Secondary (high school)

Developmental



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 3/23 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Mission Statement

1. Provide the institution's mission statement or a web address (URL) where the mission statement can be found. Typed statements are limited to 2,000 characters or less. The mission statement will be available to the public on College Navigator.



Mission Statement URL: http://



Mission Statement:



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 4/23 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Organization - Control and Levels

2. What is your institutional control or affiliation?

Be sure to select the correct control for your institution. Errors on this question have an impact throughout the IPEDS surveys, in federal reporting, in net price groupings, and on your institutions' appearance to students. If you reported incorrectly in a previous year, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568 to correct the error.



Public - Select primary and/or secondary controls below

Primary control Secondary control (if applicable)



Select One Select One



Private for-profit

Private not-for-profit independent (no religious affiliation)

Private not-for-profit religious affiliation - Select affiliation below



Select One



3. What award levels are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

Award Levels reported should be completed based on the current year. When reporting award levels for subbaccalaureate certificates (levels 1a, 1b, 2, and 4), determine program length by the number of credit or clock hours.

The "Other" award level should not be used unless your program truly does not fit any of the other award levels. We expect very few institutions to fit the "Other" category.

Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbaccalaureate undergraduate programs. Check the applicable award level 1a, 1b, 2, or 4, depending on the length of the Teacher Preparation program.



Award Level



BELOW THE BACCALAUREATE:



Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- less than 300 clock hours, or

1a

- less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- less than 13 quarter credit hours

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 300-899 clock hours, or

1b

- 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 13-44 quarter credit hours

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or

2

- at least 30 but less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours

3 Associate's degree

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 1,800 or more clock hours, or

4

- 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 90 or more quarter credit hours

12 Other (please specify in context box below)



Yes, I confirm that I reviewed the award levels offered by my institution above.



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily

understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 5/23 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Organization - Calendar System

Your response to the next question determines how your institution reports Institutional CST student charges data in the fall, Student Financial Aid data in the fall/winter, and Graduation Rates data in the winter.



If the calendar system differs from prior year or requires a change, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.



4. What is the predominant calendar system at the institution? [Choose one]



Program Reporting Method (Other calendar system)

Selecting one of the following calendar types determines that your institution will provide Student Financial Aid and Graduation Rates data based on a FULL-YEAR

COHORT, and student charges data by PROGRAM.



Differs by program

Continuous basis (every 2 weeks, monthly, or other period)



Academic Year Reporting Method (Standard academic terms)

Selecting one of the following calendar types determines that your institution will provide Student Financial Aid and Graduation Rates data based on a FALL

COHORT, and student charges data for a full ACADEMIC YEAR.



Semester

Quarter

Trimester

4-1-4 or similar plan



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 6/23 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Organization - Student Enrollment





5. Does your institution enroll any of the following types of students?


Include all levels offered by your institution, even if there are no students currently enrolled at that level.

Responses to these questions determine which screens will be generated for reporting academic year tuition charges, and for reporting Fall Enrollment during the Spring collection. Additionally, checking Yes for full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students determines that your institution must report cost of attendance data (on the Cost I component) and Student Financial Aid data for these students.



Full-time Part-time



Students in academic or occupational programs No Yes No Yes



First-time students No Yes No Yes



7. For academic year 2021-22, did your institution have any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students enrolled in programs at the baccalaureate

level or below?

If you answer Yes to this question, you will be required to provide Graduation Rates data for the 2021-22 cohort in the winter collection. If you answer No to this

question, indicate the reason you are not required to report Graduation Rates for the cohort year requested. If you reported any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students on the 2021-22 Fall Enrollment survey, the data will be preloaded below.



No

This institution did not enroll full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students.

This institution was not in operation in 2021-22.

Yes



Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students from the 2021-22 Fall Enrollment survey (GR Cohort)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 7/23 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Multi-institution or Multi-campus Organization





8. Multi-institution or multi-campus organization


Is the institution part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution? Do NOT indicate a religious affiliation here; that information is collected separately.

If you need assistance, contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568. You will not be able to lock your submission if this question is blank.



No, this institution IS NOT a part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution.

Yes, this institution IS a part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution.

If yes, select the name of the multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution after clicking on 'Select System' below.



Select System



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 8/23 Section 2 – Institutional Characteristics





Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part A - Services and Programs for Servicemembers and Veterans


1. Which of the following are available to veterans, military servicemembers, or their families?

Yellow Ribbon Program (officially known as Post-9/11 GI Bill, Yellow Ribbon Program)

Credit for military training

Dedicated point of contact for support services for veterans, military servicemembers, and their families

Recognized student veteran organization

Member of Department of Defense Voluntary Educational Partnership Memorandum of Understanding

None of the above



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily

understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 9/23 Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services - Special Learning Opportunities





1. Does your institution accept any of the following? [Check all that apply]


Credit for life experiences

Advanced placement (AP) credits

None of the above



2. What types of special learning opportunities are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]



ROTC

Army

Navy

Marine option

Air Force

Study abroad

Weekend/evening courses or programs

Undergraduate research (co-curricula)

Teacher certification (for the elementary, middle school/junior high, or secondary level)

Do not include certifications to teach at the postsecondary level.

Students can complete their preparation in certain areas of specialization

Students must complete their preparation at another institution for certain areas of specialization

This institution is approved by the state for the initial certification or licensure of teachers

Comprehensive transition and postsecondary program for students with intellectual disabilities

None of the above



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 10/23 Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services: Other Student Services





4. Which of the following selected student services are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]


Academic/career counseling services

Employment services for current students

Placement services for program completers

On-campus dependent care

None of the above



5. Which of the following academic library resources or services does your institution provide? [Check all that apply]



Physical facilities

An organized collection of printed materials

Access to Digital/electronic resources (databases, e-books, e-media, and e-serials)

A staff trained to provide and interpret library materials

Established library hours

Access to library collections shared with other institutions

None of the above



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily

understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 11/23 [Student level(s) is applicable based on your institution]

Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services - Distance Education

7. Please indicate at what level(s) your institution does or does not offer distance education courses and/or distance education programs. Check all that apply.



Distance education courses Distance education programs Does not offer Distance Education



Undergraduate level



Graduate level



8. Are all the programs at your institution offered exclusively via distance education programs?



No

Yes



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 12/23 [Applicable to institutions have undergraduate level only]

Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services: Disability Services

9. Please indicate the percentage of all undergraduate students enrolled during Fall 2023 who were formally registered as students with disabilities with the institution's office of disability services (or the equivalent office).



3 percent or less

More than 3 percent: (enter up to 2 decimal places) %



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 13/23 Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Noncredit Education Offered

10. Which of the following categories of noncredit education are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

Note: Categories below may not be mutually exclusive.



Workforce Education

Contract Training/Customized Training

Developmental Education

Recreational/Avocational/Leisure/Personal Enrichment

Adult Basic Education

Adult High School Diploma or Equivalent

English as a Second Language

Continuing Professional Education

None of the above



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 14/23 Section 3 – Other Survey Component Screening Questions



[Applicable to institutions have first-time students only]

Section 3 - Other Survey Component Questions: Part A - Open Admission

1. Does your institution have an open admission policy for all or most entering first-time students?

If the only requirement for admission is a high school diploma or GED/other equivalent, your institution is still considered open admission. Institutions that require only an Ability to Benefit or similar test beyond the diploma/equivalent, and only reject a very small number of students based on the test, are also considered open admission.

If your institution does not have an open admission policy, you will be required to report Admissions component on your admissions procedures and admissions

yield.



No

Yes



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily

understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 15/23 [Applicable to new institutions only]

Section 3 - Other Survey Component Questions: Part C - Levels of Enrollment Offered

1. Was your institution in operation during the academic year 2023-24?

If you answer Yes to this question, you will be able to specify the levels of enrollment offered at your institution during 2023-24 and to report 12-month enrollment during the fall collection.



No

Yes. Please specify the levels of enrollment offered during 2023-24.

Undergraduate

Full time Part time

Graduate (not including doctor's-professional practice)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 16/23 Summary

Institutional Characteristics Component Summary

The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.



Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



Section 1 - Header Information



Educational Offerings



Mission Statement



Control



Award Levels Offered



Reporter Type



Calendar System



Levels of Enrollment Offered



System



Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics



Services and Programs for Servicemembers and Veterans



Student Services



Credit Accepted



Special Learning Opportunities



Years of college-level work required for BS/BA program entry



Other Student Services



Academic library resources



Distance Education



DE program level(s)



DE course level(s)



Noncredit Education



Disability Services



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 17/23 Institutional Characteristics Full Instructions for less than 2-year institutions



Purpose of Institutional Characteristics Survey



Changes in Reporting



General instructions

Reporting Period for Institutional Characteristics Header

Context boxes



Coverage



Where to Get Help



Where the Data Will Appear



Reporting Directions

Section 1 - Header

Part A - Educational Offerings

Part B - Organization

Mission Statement

Control and Award Levels

Calendar System

Enrollment Levels and GR cohort question

Multi-institution or Multi-campus Organization



Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics

Part A - Services and Programs for Servicemembers and Veterans

Part B - Student Services



Section 3 - Other Survey Screening Questions

Part A - Open Admission

Part C - Levels of Enrollment



Section 4 - Branch Campus

[Applicable for institutions that report IC data for branch campuses]



Purpose of Survey

Welcome to the Institutional Characteristics (IC) survey component. This survey component collects directory information, including data that are key to reporting throughout the IPEDS data collection and must be completed and locked before any other survey can be started. Any errors in the IC survey can lead to further errors in the data reporting process, so please be very careful in reporting these data correctly and contact the IPEDS Help Desk (877.225.2568) if you have any questions. This survey component also collects basic institutional information including student services and athletic association.





Changes in reporting

The following changes have been made for 2024-25:

The IC survey includes elements of the IC Header and the IC survey components. IC no longer includes Cost data; those data are collected in the new Cost survey component.





General instructions



Reporting period covered

Institutional Characteristics (IC) covers data for the current year with two exceptions.

Cohort data in Section 1, B7 refer to a past cohort and are used to set the Graduation Rates component (GR). For new institutions, the question about prior year operation refers to the prior academic year and is used to determine the applicability of the 12-Month Enrollment (E12) survey component.





Context Boxes

Context boxes are provided to allow institutions to provide more information regarding survey component items. Note that some context boxes are posted on

the College Navigator Website, which is the college search tool offered by NCES. NCES will review entries in these context boxes for applicability and



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 18/23

appropriateness before posting them on the College Navigator Website, however, institutions should check grammar and spelling of their entries. Inappropriate

or repetitive contexts will be deleted.





Coverage

Carefully read each question in the Institutional Characteristics (IC) survey to ensure that you are reporting data for the appropriate students. The student groups for which data are collected vary throughout the IC-H survey (e.g., undergraduate and graduate). In general, for each group, ensure that the guidelines below are met.



A. Who to Include (for all questions except for Section 3, Part D – Noncredit education)

Students enrolled in courses creditable toward a diploma, certificate, degree, or other recognized postsecondary credential, including those enrolled in off-campus centers

High school students taking college courses for credit

Full-time students taking developmental courses IF the student is considered degree-seeking for the purpose of student financial aid determination Students from overseas enrolled in U.S. courses for credit (e.g., online students, for all other than noncredit education question) Students who are incarcerated (e.g., postsecondary prison education program)

Graduate students enrolled for thesis credits, even when zero credits are awarded, as these students are still enrolled and seeking their degree

B. Who NOT to Include (for all questions except for Section 2, Part B – Noncredit education)

Students enrolled exclusively in courses not creditable toward a recognized postsecondary credential Students enrolled only in ESL programs (programs comprised exclusively of ESL courses)

Students enrolled exclusively in Continuing Education Units (CEUs; for all other than noncredit education question) Students exclusively auditing classes

Residents or interns in Doctor's - professional practice (previously first-professional), since they have already received their Doctor's degree Students studying abroad (e.g., at a foreign university) if their enrollment at the "home" institution is only an administrative record and the fee is nominal Students enrolled in any branch campus located in a foreign country





Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org



Web Tutorials

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools,

and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g.,

academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS data center

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

College Affordability and Transparency Center Website

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS First Looks

IPEDS Table Library

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education





Reporting Directions



Section 1 - Header Information



Part A - Educational Offerings

Responses on this screen verify inclusion of the institution on the NCES/IPEDS list of institutions and agencies that provide all types of postsecondary

education. Postsecondary education is defined as the provision of a formal instructional program whose curriculum is designed primarily for students beyond

the compulsory age for high school. This includes programs whose purpose is occupational, academic, or continuing professional education but excludes

avocational and adult basic education programs.



If you select only avocational and/or adult basic education programs, you will be contacted by IPEDS to confirm your exemption from IPEDS reporting.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 19/23

Part B – Organization



Mission Statement

Provide your institution's mission statement or a web address (please select http:// or https://) where the statement can be found. Typed statements are

limited to 2,000 characters. The mission statement will be available to the public on College Navigator.



Institutional Control or Affiliation

Indicate the appropriate control or affiliation under which the institution operates. If the institution has a religious affiliation, select the denomination from

the list provided in the drop-down box. Public institutions must designate a primary control; identification of a secondary control is optional. If control of the

institution differs from the prior year or requires a change, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.



Correct reporting of control or affiliation is KEY to IPEDS reporting. Errors in reporting control or affiliation cause you to receive incorrect survey forms,

misrepresent your institution to the public on College Navigator and other search tools that use IPEDS data, and place your institution in incorrect groups in

IPEDS publications and on the College Affordability and Transparency Lists. If you do not know the control or affiliation of your institution, please call the

Help Desk.



Award Levels

Check applicable award levels for all credit programs offered at the institution. Award levels are identified based on duration and/or awards.

Report using the number of CLOCK or CREDIT hours, as is appropriate to your calendar system (e.g., semester or quarter). Award levels 1a and b, 2, and 4 differ by length of programs and refer to completions below the baccalaureate degree. Use the IPEDS designations, not institutionally defined designations, to describe these levels.

Award levels 3, 5, 7, 17, 18, and 19 indicate degree levels for which the institution is authorized to make recognized postsecondary credentials. Award levels 6 and 8 indicate certificate levels.

If you cannot classify an award within the award levels indicated on the screen, check award level 12 ("Other") and specify or describe the award in the context box. Because there are few programs that fall under "Other" please contact the Help Desk if you are considering selecting Level 12.

NOTE: Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbaccalaureate

undergraduate programs. Check the applicable award level 1a or b, 2, or 4, depending on the length of the Teacher Preparation program.



Calendar System

Indicate the predominant calendar system under which the institution operates. If programs are offered on more than one calendar, select the system

under which most programs are offered. If there is no predominant calendar system at your institution, select the option that best characterizes your

institution.



If your calendar system differs from the prior year or requires a change, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.



Note: Calendar system selection determines reporting in many other IPEDS components. Be sure that the calendar system you select accurately represents

your institution. Contact the IPEDS Help Desk if you are not sure which calendar system to select.

Standard academic terms (semesters, quarters, trimesters, 4-1-4)

Use a Fall cohort for Graduation Rates.

Report tuition and fees and cost information based on a full academic year. Report Fall Enrollment using students enrolled as of October 15, or the official Fall reporting date used by the institution. For Student Financial Aid (aid awarded), report students enrolled in the prior 12-month period of July 1 - June 30, and the aid for an award year.



Program-by-program or continuous enrollment basis

Use a full-year cohort for Graduation Rates.

Report tuition and fees and books and supplies information by program for the entire length of the program. For living expenses, report costs for 1 month. Note: Living expenses are only applicable to institutions with full-time, first-time students and are reported with the largest program.

Report Fall Enrollment using students enrolled in the institution at any time between August 1 and October 31. For Student Financial Aid (aid awarded), report students enrolled in the prior 12-month period of July 1 - June 30, and the aid for an award year.



Student Enrollment



Enrollment of full- and part-time students

Indicate whether your institution enrolls any full-time or part-time students at the levels listed. Include all levels offered, even if there are not any students

currently enrolled at that level.

Responses to those categories will determine the screens generated for reporting academic year tuition charges in the Cost(CST) survey during the Fall

collection and enrollment data in the Fall Enrollment survey during the Spring collection.

Make sure to check "Yes" for full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students if applicable, as this determines that your institution will report cost information on CST screens during the Fall/Winter collections.



GR cohort question

Indicate if your institution had any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students enrolled in the academic year indicated on the screen. If you check Yes, you must report Graduation Rates data in the Winter collection.



Multi-institution or Multi-campus Organization

If applicable, select from the provided list the multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution. If you do not

see your multi-institution or multi-organization listed, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk.

A multi-institution or multi-campus organization includes organizations with two or more institutions or campuses.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 20/23

Non-postsecondary education agencies that govern or control institutions include, but are not limited to, public school districts, art organizations, hospitals

and other medical/health organizations.

Do not include:

coordinating systems single institution owner

single institution corporate name

single institution governing board consortia

associations

religious affiliation (requested in control question)





Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics



Part A - Services and Programs for Military Servicemembers and Veterans

Indicate which of the following are offered to veterans, military servicemembers, or their families.

For the Post-9/11 Bill Yellow Ribbon Program, please choose this only if the Yellow Ribbon Program is available at your institution.



Part B - Student Services



Special learning opportunities

Special credit

Indicate if your institution accepts credit earned prior to admission through any of the sources listed.

Special learning opportunities

Indicate if the listed special learning opportunities are offered by your institution. Teacher certification refers to pre-K through 12; if the institution only

provides certification for some levels (e.g., elementary only and not secondary), be sure to indicate that only certain levels are offered.



Student services

Other Student services

Indicate which of the listed services are offered by your institution.

Library

Indicate whether your institution offers any of the listed resources or services. If none of the listed resources/services apply, select "None of the above".



Distance education

Indicate the levels at which your institution offers distance education courses and/or distance education programs. Check all options that apply.

Distance education uses one or more technologies to deliver instruction to students who are separated from the instructor and to support regular and

substantive interaction between the students and the instructor synchronously or asynchronously.

Requirements for coming to campus for orientation, testing, or academic support services do not exclude a course from being classified as distance

education. Technologies used for instruction may include the following: Internet; one-way and two-way transmissions through open broadcasts, closed

circuit, cable, microwave, broadband lines, fiber optics, satellite or wireless communication devices; audio conferencing; and video cassette, DVDs, and CD-

ROMs, if the cassette, DVDs, and CD-ROMs are used in a course in conjunction with the technologies listed above.

Distance education course

A course in which the instructional content is delivered exclusively via distance education.

Distance education program

A program for which all the required coursework for program completion is able to be completed via distance education courses.

Distance education levels

Indicate whether you offer distance education courses and/or programs at the undergraduate level and/or graduate level. Please check all that apply. If you

do not offer distance education courses and/or programs, please select “Does not offer distance education" at the undergraduate and/or graduate level.

Exclusively distance education programs

Indicate whether or not ALL programs offered by your institution are delivered exclusively via distance education, meaning all the required coursework for

program completion is able to be completed via distance education courses.



Disabilities

Please indicate the percentage of all undergraduate students enrolled during the time period indicated who were formally registered as students with

disabilities with the institution's office of disability services (or the equivalent office). This may include students with physical or learning disabilities, as well

as other types of disabilities. If greater than 3% of students are registered as having a disability, you will need to indicate a percentage (up to 2 decimal

places).

Please use the context box on the page to provide information, such as the webpage for your disability services website.



Noncredit Education

Indicate whether your institution offers any of the below types of noncredit education. Noncredit education is defined as “Courses or activities carrying no

academic credit applicable toward a degree, diploma, certificate, or other recognized postsecondary credential at the institution or within the postsecondary

educational system.” Check all that apply; categories may not be mutually exclusive. If your institution does not offer noncredit education, please select

‘None of the above’.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 21/23

Section 3 - Other Survey Screening Questions





Part A – Open admission policy

Check Yes if your institution has an open admission policy.

If your institution requires only a high school diploma/equivalent and/or Ability to Benefit (or similar) test, and few students are not admitted based on the

test, your institution is still considered open admission. For example, if you have students take the ATB test and allow 98% of those students to enroll, you

are likely open admission. The 2% that were not admitted had unusual circumstances that kept them from being admitted.

Note: IPEDS does not have a set percentage to determine open admission. Please review your institution's admission policy or talk to someone in the

admissions office if you are not sure whether your institution is open admission, or contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.



Part C – Levels of Enrollment

New institutions should indicate whether their institution was in operation during the prior academic year. If the response is "Yes", they should also indicate

the levels that were offered.



Section 4- Branch campus

For branch campuses, refer to the instructions on the appropriate screen.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 22/23 Glossary



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30090&formid=90 23/23





