2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Graduation Rates for less-than-2-year institutions reporting on a fall cohort (academic reporters)

Overview

Graduation Rates Overview

Welcome to the IPEDS Graduation Rates (GR) survey component. The GR component collects data on the cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students and tracks their completion status at 150% of the normal time to complete all requirements of their program of study. This information is collected to assist institutions in complying with the requirements of the Student Right-to-Know Act.

Data Reporting Reminders

Report data to accurately reflect the time period corresponding with the IPEDS survey component, even if such reporting is seemingly inconsistent with prior-year reporting.

Once a student is in the cohort, they remain in the cohort, even if their status changes to part-time or they drop out or transfer out of the institution. However, adjustments can be made to the cohort for allowable exclusions, which include the death of a student, total and permanent disability, military deployment, or service on an official church mission or with a foreign aid service of the Federal government.



When reporting award levels for sub-baccalaureate certificates, determine program length by the number of credit or clock hours, NOT the academic year length in parentheses. The academic year length is meant only to provide context.

Changes to reporting for 2024-25:

The following changes were implemented for the 2024-25 data collection period:

Removed the Gender Unknown or Another Gender than Provided Categories question.



If you have questions about completing this survey, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 1/11 Graduation rates

Establishing cohorts

Based on your institution's response to the predominant calendar system question (Section 1 - Part B, Question 4) on the Institutional Characteristics survey component from the IPEDS Fall 2024 data collection,

Your institution reported to the GR survey component as having the following number of students who did not complete, but were still enrolled Fall Cohort (Fall at your institution: 2021)

A fall cohort is used by institutions with standard academic terms (semester, trimester, quarter, 4-1-4). A full-year cohort is used by institutions offering primarily occupational/vocational programs and operating on a continuous basis.

Reporting Reminder:

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

In the columns below, indicate the status of the 2021 cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students reported in Column 10. The cumulative number of these students who completed their program within 150% of normal time as of August 31, 2024 should be reported in Column 11. Report transfers-out who did not complete a program in Column 30. If the mission of your institution includes providing substantial preparation for students to enroll in another eligible institution WITHOUT having completed a program, you must report transfer-out data in Column 30. A school is required to report only on those students that the school knows have transferred to another eligible institution. A school must document that the student actually transferred. If it is not part of your mission, you may report transfer-out data if you wish.

Report eligible exclusions from the cohort in Column 45. The ONLY allowable categories for this column are: students who died or became totally and permanently disabled

students who left school to serve in the armed forces (or have been called up to active duty) students who left school to serve with a foreign aid service of the Federal Government

students who left school to serve on an official church mission

Column 52 [No longer enrolled] will be calculated for you. This includes students who dropped out as well as those who completed in greater than 150% of normal time.

Column 55 [Completers within 100%] is a subset of Column 11 [Completers within 150%]. These data are being requested so they can be preloaded into next year's Graduation Rates 200% survey component.

Cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students

Screen 1 of 2 Cohort year 2021



Adjusted Total Column 11, within 150% Completed Of those in

Initial Revised Total cohort transfer- Still those who No

cohort cohort exclusions (Col 10 - out enrolled completed of normal longer

Col 45) students within 100% of time to enrolled

completion

normal time to

completion

(Column 10) (Column 45) (Column 50) (Column 11) (Column 55) (Column 30) (Column 51) (Column 52)



Total men + women

Total men + women

prior year



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 2/11 Pell recipients and recipients of a subsidized Direct Loan who did not receive a Pell Grant





For each subcohort, report the number of students in the cohort, total exclusions for the cohort, and the number of students that completed a certificate or degree within 150% of normal time to completion.


Recipients of a Pell Grant and Recipients of a Direct Subsidized Loan that did not receive a Pell Grant are mutually exclusive, that is, if a student is in one cohort, they cannot be in the other cohort.

- The total of these 2 subcohorts must be less than the full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking cohort

Cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students

Screen 2 of 2 Cohort year 2021

Number of students that

Number of students in completed within 150% of

Total exclusions

cohort normal time to

completion

(Column 10) (Column 45) (Column 11)

Full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking cohort

Recipients of a Pell Grant (within entering year)

Recipients of a Direct Subsidized Loan (within entering year) that did not

receive a Pell Grant

Did not receive either a Pell Grant or Direct Subsidized Loan (within entering

year)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 3/11 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data. The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS. Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 4/11 Summary





Graduation Rate Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.

Overall Graduation Rate

Graduation Rate (%)

Total number of students in the Adjusted Cohort

Total number of completers within 150% of normal time



Overall Transfer-out Rate

Transfer-out Rate (%)

Total number of students in the Adjusted Cohort

Total number of transfers-out within 150% of normal time



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 5/11 Graduation Rates Full Instructions - Less Than 2-Year Institutions



Purpose of the Survey

Changes in Reporting

General Instructions

Reporting Period Covered

Context Boxes

Coverage

Who to Include

Who to Exclude

Where to Get Help for Reporting

Where Reported Data Will Appear

Uploading Files to the IPEDS Data Collection System

Reporting Directions



Purpose of the Survey

The purpose of the IPEDS Graduation Rates survey component is to track given cohorts of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students -as well as their completion status at 150% of the normal time to complete all requirements of their program of study - at postsecondary institutions. These data are collected to assist institutions in complying with the requirements of the Student Right-to-Know Act.





Changes in reporting for 2024-25

The following changes were implemented for the 2024-25 data collection period:

Removed the Gender Unknown or Another Gender than Provided Categories question.





General Instructions



Reporting Period Covered

This survey component collects data on the cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students enrolled in your institution either (1) as of October 15, 2021 (or the institution's official fall reporting date) for institutions that offer a predominant number of programs based on standard academic terms (e.g., semesters, trimesters, quarters, or 4-1-4 plan); or (2) during the period between September 1, 2021 and August 31, 2022 for institutions that do not offer a predominant number of programs based on standard academic terms. Institutions are to report the status of these students as of August 31, 2024.



Context Boxes

Context boxes are provided to allow institutions to provide more information regarding survey component items. Note that some context boxes are posted on

the College Navigator Website, which is the college search tool offered by NCES. NCES will review entries in these context boxes for applicability and

appropriateness before posting them on the College Navigator Website; institutions should check grammar and spelling of their entries.





Coverage

Who to Include in the Cohort

Include all full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students entering the institution either during the fall term or during the 12-month period as described above. Include students enrolled in the fall term who attended college for the first time in the prior summer session and students who entered with advanced standing (college credits earned before graduating from high school). For institutions that will report using a full-year cohort, count as entering students all those students who entered the institution between September 1, 2021 and August 31, 2022, and who were enrolled for at least 15 days in a program of up to and including one year in length; or 30 days in a program of greater than one year in length.

Include all students enrolled for credit toward a degree, diploma, certificate, or other recognized postsecondary credential. Include students enrolled in courses that are part of a vocational or occupational program, INCLUDING those enrolled in off-campus centers and those enrolled in distance learning/home study programs.

Be sure to include full-time students taking developmental courses if the student is considered degree-seeking for the purpose of student financial aid determination. This includes students who:

Received any type of federal financial aid, regardless of what courses they took at any time



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 6/11

Received any state or locally based financial aid with an eligibility requirement that the student be enrolled in a degree, certificate, or transfer-seeking program

Obtained a student visa to enroll at a U.S. postsecondary institution

A student who is designated as a member of the cohort remains in the cohort, even if the student:

Becomes a part-time student

Transfers to another institution

Drops out of the institution

Stops out of the institution

Has not fulfilled the institution's requirements to receive a degree or certificate

Went on a study abroad program the first year upon entering the institution

Who to Exclude from the Cohort

Do NOT include students in the cohort who are:

Enrolled exclusively in courses not creditable toward a recognized postsecondary credential or the completion of a vocational program (i.e., non-degree/certificate-seeking students)

Exclusively taking CEUs

Exclusively auditing classes

Enrolled part-time

Transfers into the institution

Foreign students who are only taking coursework at a host institution (e.g., an American institution overseas), if these students are not enrolled at a U.S. institution





Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org

Web Tutorials

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools, and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g., academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS Use the Data portal

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

College Affordability and Transparency Center Website

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS Data Explorer

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education





Uploading Files to the IPEDS Data Collection System

The File Import/Upload option is found under the Tools menu. In order to perform the upload you’ll need to have a file formatted to specifications. Upload specifications are included with the survey materials found under the Help menu. There are three upload formats available for the Graduation Rates survey component:

Fixed width file

Key value file





Reporting Instructions

Cohort Data

Report the status of the 2021 cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students as of August 31, 2024 in terms of the number of completers within 150% of normal time to completion for their program, the number of transfer-out students, and the number of allowable exclusions to the cohort. Report the combined total of men and women.

Report only for full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students. Do NOT include part-time students or students who transferred into your institution.

Initial cohort - If you are reporting on a fall cohort, the information reported on full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate student enrollment at your institution on the 2021 IPEDS Fall Enrollment survey will be preloaded in this column. If you did not respond to that survey, or if you are reporting on a full-year cohort, the column will be blank.

Revised cohort (Column 10) - Institutions have the option of revising their preloaded cohort if:

there are eligible students who were omitted in the past

students were reported who did not belong in the cohort (e.g., they were not actually first-time, or full-time)

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 7/11 Please review the data in the Initial cohort column (if applicable) and make any necessary corrections for omissions or erroneous reporting in the Revised cohort column. If your data do not appear in the Initial cohort column, please provide the enrollment data as requested in the Revised cohort column. Total exclusions (Column 45) - Indicate the total number of students who left your institution within 150% of normal time to completion for their program (and have neither graduated nor transferred to another institution) due to one of the following documented reasons:

a. The student is deceased or is totally and permanently disabled and thus unable to return to school. b. The student left school to serve in the armed forces or was called up to active duty. (Do NOT include students already in the military who transfer to

another duty station.)

c. The student left school to serve with a foreign aid service of the Federal Government, such as the Peace Corps. d. The student left school to serve on an official church mission.

NOTE: Students who leave the institution for one of the reasons noted above, but return prior to the status date of August 31, 2024, may still be subtracted/excluded from the cohort during the calculation of graduation rates.

Completed within 150% of normal time to completion (Column 11) - In order to calculate a graduation rate that complies with Student Right-to-Know regulations, institutions may count as completers only those students who received their degree/certificate within 150% of the normal time for program completion (normal time to completion is the amount of time necessary to complete all requirements for a degree or certificate according to the institution's catalog). Do not count as completers students who receive their degree/certificate from another institution. Enter the number of students who completed programs of less than 2 full-time equivalent academic years within 150% of normal time to completion. This includes awards, certificates, or diplomas of less than one academic year and of at least one but less than two academic years; or designed for completion in less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, less than 90 quarter credit hours, or less than 1,800 clock hours. For example, a student who completed a 6-month (or equivalent) program in 9 months or less would be reported in Column 11; those taking longer would not be reported in this column. Completed within 100% of normal time to completion (Column 55) - Of those students reported in Column 11 who completed their program within 150% of normal time to completion, enter the number who completed their program within 100% of normal time. For example, a student who completed a 6-month (or equivalent) program in 6 months or less would be reported in column 55; those taking longer would not be reported in this column. The number of students reported in Column 55 should be a subset of those reported in Column 11. Total transfer-out students (Column 30) - If the mission of your institution includes providing substantial preparation for students to enroll in another eligible institution without having completed a program, and your institution has information on students who transfer-out, report the total number of students who transferred out of your institution (without earning a degree/award) within 150% of normal time to completion. Include students who transferred out of your institution and subsequently re-enrolled in another eligible institution. If it is not part of your mission, you may still report transfer-out data if you wish. Still enrolled (Column 51) - Enter the number of students who are still enrolled at your institution as of the fall census date for the fall term following 150% of normal time to completion of their program.

Report each student in only one outcome category (i.e., as completing a program, as a transfer-out, as an exclusion, or as still enrolled) with the exception of those students reported in Column 55, which are a subset of the students reported in Column 11. No longer enrolled (Column 52) - This column represents the difference between the revised cohort (Column 10) and the sum of Columns 11, 30, 45, and 51.



Calculation of Graduation and Transfer-out Rates

Worksheets

A worksheet calculating the Student Right-To-Know and overall four-year average completion/graduation and transfer-out rates of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students for the 2021 student cohort is provided as a convenience to the institution. Data previously reported by the institution are preloaded for use in these calculations.

Note that certain information from these worksheets will be displayed on College Navigator, as noted. Additional information relevant to the calcualated rates may be entered in the context box provided on the previous screen, and will aso be displayed on College Navigator.

Privacy Issue With Disclosure

Before using the worksheets for disclosure, please consider the following:

The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 as amended (1998) (FERPA) requires that institutions not disclose information where students could be identified.





Pell recipients and recipients of a subsidized Direct Loan who did not receive a Pell Grant Report each student only once.

Report the status of the 2021 cohort of first-time, full-time degree/certificate-seeking students as of 150% of normal time to completion or August 31, 2024 (whichever was earlier) in terms of the number of completers.

Report only for full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students. Do NOT include part-time students or students who transferred into your institution.

Count completers only once.

SPECIAL NOTE: In order to resolve a potential conflict between transfers-out and the mission of particular programs to prepare students for transfer to other institutions, institutions may count as completers those students who have successfully completed a transfer-preparatory program. Transfer-preparatory program is defined in 34 CFR Student Assistance General Provisions, Section 668.8(b)(1)(ii) as "the successful completion of at least a 2-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor’s degree and qualifies a student for admission into the third year of a bachelor’s degree program." The Secretary considers this the equivalent of an associate’s degree, thus completers of transfer-preparatory programs (although they do not receive a "recognized postsecondary credential") should be counted as completers of an at least 2 but less than 4 year program. Similarly, institutions may count as completers those students who have successfully completed the first three years of a 3-2 program and are eligible to enter another institution to complete the program (provided the program is acceptable for full credit towards a five-year bachelor's degree, and qualifies a student for admission into the fourth year of a five-year bachelor's degree program). As with a transfer-preparatory program, these students should be counted as completers of an at least 2 but less than 4 year program.

In order to calculate a graduation rate that complies with Student Right-to-Know regulations, institutions may count as completers only those students who received their degree/certificate (or completed a transfer-preparatory program) within 150% of the normal time for program completion (normal time to completion is the amount of time necessary to complete all requirements for a program according to the institution's catalog). Do not count as completers students who receive their degree from another institution.

For the first-time, full-time degree/certificate-seeking cohort, data will be collected on those students who were recipients of a Pell Grant and those students who were recipients of a subsidized Direct Loan that did not receive a Pell Grant.

Recipients are defined as those students receiving and using their Pell Grant or Subsidized Direct Loan. These students must receive the award upon entry into the institution. If the student is a recipient of an award at a later point after entry, they would not be included in one of the subcohorts.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 8/11 Number of students in the cohort - The number of students in the full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking cohort will be preloaded from column 10 of the GR form. Of those students, report the number of students who received a Pell Grant and the number of students who received a subsidized Direct Loan but DID NOT receive a Pell Grant. These two categories will be mutually exclusive. The total of these two subcohorts must be less than or equal to the total of all students.

Total exclusions - The number of exclusions in the full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking cohort will be preloaded from column 45 of the GR form. Of those students reported as exclusions, report the number of students who received a Pell Grant and the number of students who received a subsidized Direct Loan but DID NOT receive a Pell Grant. These two categories will be mutually exclusive. The total of these two subcohorts must be less than or equal to the total of all students.

Number of students completing within 150% or normal time - The number of students in the full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking cohort who completed within 150% of normal time to completion will be preloaded from column 11 of the GR form. Of those students reported as completers, report the number of students who received a Pell Grant and the number of students who received a subsidized Direct Loan but DID NOT receive a Pell Grant. These two categories will be mutually exclusive. The total of these two subcohorts must be less than or equal to the total of all students.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 9/11 Glossary

Term Definition

The result of removing any allowable exclusions from a cohort (or subcohort). For the Fall Enrollment component, it is the

cohort for calculating retention rate; for the Graduation Rates component, this is the cohort from which graduation and transfer-

Adjusted cohort

out rates are calculated; and for the Outcome Measures component, these are the four cohorts (first-time, full-time; first-time, part-time; non-first-time, full-time; or non-first-time, part-time) for which outcomes rates are calculated at 4, 6, and 8 years.

Cohort A specific group of students established for tracking purposes.

Cohort year The year that a cohort of students begins attending college.

Completers within 150% of

Students who completed their program within 150% of the normal (or expected) time for completion.

normal time

Students enrolled in courses for credit who are seeking a degree, certificate, or other recognized postsecondary credential. This includes students who:

- received any type of federal financial aid, regardless of what courses they took at any time;

Degree/certificate-seeking - received any state or locally based financial aid with an eligibility requirement that the student be enrolled in a degree, students (DCGS) certificate, or transfer-seeking program; or

- obtained a student visa to study at a U.S. postsecondary institution

High school students also enrolled in postsecondary courses for credit are not considered degree/certificate-seeking.

Those students who may be removed (deleted) from a cohort (or subcohort). For the Graduation Rates, Outcome Measures,

and Fall Enrollment retention rate reporting, students may be removed from a cohort if they left the institution for one of the

Exclusions

following reasons: death or total and permanent disability; service in the armed forces (including those called to active duty); service with a foreign aid service of the federal government, such as the Peace Corps; or service on official church missions.

The group of students entering in the fall term established for tracking purposes. For the Graduation Rates component, this

Fall cohort includes all students who enter an institution as full-time, first-time degree or certificate-seeking undergraduate students during

the fall term of a given year.

A student who has no prior postsecondary experience (except as noted below) attending any institution for the first time at the

First-time student undergraduate level. This includes students enrolled in academic or occupational programs. It also includes students enrolled

(undergraduate) in the fall term who attended college for the first time in the prior summer session, and students who entered with advanced

standing (college credits or recognized postsecondary credential earned before graduation from high school).

Undergraduate: A student enrolled for 12 or more semester credits, or 12 or more quarter credits, or 24 or more clock hours a week each term. Graduate: A student enrolled for 9 or more semester credits, or 9 or more quarter credits, or a student involved

Full-time student

in thesis or dissertation preparation that is considered full-time by the institution. Doctor's degree - Professional practice - full-time as defined by the institution.

This is a group of students entering at any time during the 12-month period for tracking and reporting. For Graduation Rate (GR),

a full-year cohort is from September 1 through August 31 and is used primarily by institutions that offer occupational programs

Full-year cohort of varying lengths. Students must be full-time and first-time to be considered in the cohort. For Outcome Measures (OM)

component, all degree-granting institutions report on a full-year cohort from July 1 through June 30. Students are reported once in one of the four OM cohorts: first-time, full-time; first-time, part-time: non-first-time, full-time; or non-first-time, part-time.

The rate required for disclosure and/or reporting purposes under Student Right-to-Know Act. This rate is calculated as the total

Graduation rate

number of completers within 150% of normal time divided by the revised adjusted cohort.

This annual component of IPEDS was added in 1997 to help institutions satisfy the requirements of the Student Right-to-Know legislation. Data are collected on the number of students entering the institution as full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students in a particular year (cohort), by race/ethnicity and gender; the number completing their program within 150 percent of normal time to completion; the number that transfer to other institutions if transfer is part of the

Graduation Rates (GR)

institution's mission. Prior to 2007, institutions who offered athletically-related student aid were asked to report, by sport, the number of students receiving aid and whether they completed within 150 percent of normal time to completion. Now, these institutions only need to report a URL where the athletic data is located on their website, when available. GR automatically generates worksheets that calculate rates, including average rates over 4 years.

A specific group of individuals established for tracking purposes. For the Graduation Rates (GR) and Outcome Measures (OM)

components of IPEDS, the initial cohort is defined as the enrollment count before removing revisions and exclusions of all

degree/certificate-seeking students who enter in either (1) the fall term of a given academic year, or (2) between September 1st

Initial cohort

and August 31st of the following year. For the GR component of IPEDS, the initial cohort is only for full-time, first-time students. For OM, all undergraduates are placed in one of four initial cohorts: full-time, first-time; part-time, first-time; full-time, non-first-time; and part-time, non-first time.

The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), conducted by the NCES, began in 1986 and involves annual

institution-level data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation Agreement with the Office of

Integrated Postsecondary Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report

Education Data System data using a web-based data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional

(IPEDS) Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Admissions (ADM); Student Financial Aid (SFA); Human

Resources (HR) composed of Employees by Assigned Position, Fall Staff, and Salaries; Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates

(GR); Outcome Measures (OM); Finance (F); and Academic Libraries (AL).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 10/11

The amount of time necessary for a student to complete all requirements for a degree or certificate according to the institution's catalog. This is typically 4 years (8 semesters or trimesters, or 12 quarters, excluding summer sessions) for a

Normal time to completion bachelor's degree in a standard term-based institution; 2 years (4 semesters or trimesters, or 6 quarters, excluding summer

sessions) for an associate's degree in a standard term-based institution; and the various scheduled times for certificate

programs.

A recognized postsecondary credential includes any credential that is recognized by the institution’s appropriate governing body and received after completion of an academic program or that is awarded in recognition of an individual's attainment of

Recognized postsecondary

measurable technical or industry/occupational skills necessary to obtain employment or advance within an industry/occupation.

credential

These technical or industry/occupational skills generally are based on standards developed or endorsed by employers or industry associations.

Initial cohort after revisions are made. Cohorts may be revised if an institution discovers that incorrect data were reported in an

Revised cohort

earlier year.

Also known as the "Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act" (P.L. 101-542), which was passed by Congress November

9, 1990. Title I, Section 103, requires institutions eligible for Title IV funding to calculate completion or graduation rates of certificate- or degree-seeking, full-time students entering that institution, and to disclose these rates to all students and prospective students. Further, Section 104 requires each institution that participates in any Title IV program and is attended by students receiving athletically-related student aid to submit a report to the Secretary of Education annually. This report is to

Student Right-to-Know Act

contain, among other things, graduation/completion rates of all students as well as students receiving athletically-related student aid by race/ethnicity and gender and by sport, and the average completion or graduation rate for the four most recent years. These data are also required to be disclosed to parents, coaches, and potential student athletes when the institution

offers athletically-related student aid. The Graduation Rates component of IPEDS was developed specifically to help institutions respond to these requirements. See Graduation Rates for the current description of data collected.

An institution that has a written agreement with the Secretary of Education that allows the institution to participate in any of the Title IV federal student financial assistance programs (other than the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP,

Title IV institution

formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG and the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership or NEISP programs).

A degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate student entering the IPEDS reporting institution for the first time but known to have previously enrolled at a different postsecondary institution (not as a high school student). The student may transfer with or

Transfer-in student

without credit. For systems of coordinated institutions (multi-campus system), students are to be identified as transfer-in students upon entering an institution from another institution within the same coordinated system.

Total number of students who are known to have transferred out of the reporting institution within 150% of normal time to

Transfer-out rate

completion divided by the adjusted cohort.

A student who discontinues enrollment at the IPEDS reporting institution and enrolls at a different postsecondary institution. For

Transfer-out student systems of coordinated institutions (multi-campus system), students are to be identified as transfer-out students when leaving

an institution to enroll into another institution within the same coordinated system.

A program designed specifically to provide a student with the basic knowledge needed to transfer into a higher level program. For example, this may be the first 2 years of a baccalaureate level program for which the institution does not offer an award, or 2

Transfer-preparatory program

years of undergraduate study needed for entrance into a first-professional program, or 1 or more years of undergraduate study needed for entrance into health services fields.

A student who is taking courses at the baccalaureate or below the baccalaureate level. These students may or may not be

Undergraduate student

enrolled in undergraduate programs.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=15 11/11





