Establishing cohorts

Based on your institution's response to the predominant calendar system question (Section 1 - Part B, Question 4) on the Institutional Characteristics survey component from the IPEDS Fall 2024 data collection,

Your institution reported to the GR survey component as having the following number of students who did not complete, Full-Year Cohort (September 1, 2021 -but were still enrolled at your institution: August 31, 2022)

A fall cohort is used by institutions with standard academic terms (semester, trimester, quarter, 4-1-4). A full-year cohort is used by institutions offering primarily occupational/vocational programs and operating on a continuous basis.

Reporting Reminder:

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

In the columns below, indicate the status of the 2021 cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students reported in Column 10. The cumulative number of these students who completed their program within 150% of normal time as of August 31, 2024 should be reported in Column 11. Report transfers-out who did not complete a program in Column 30. If the mission of your institution includes providing substantial preparation for students to enroll in another eligible institution WITHOUT having completed a program, you must report transfer-out data in Column 30. A school is required to report only on those students that the school knows have transferred to another eligible institution. A school must document that the student actually transferred. If it is not part of your mission, you may report transfer-out data if you wish.

Report eligible exclusions from the cohort in Column 45. The ONLY allowable categories for this column are: students who died or became totally and permanently disabled

students who left school to serve in the armed forces (or have been called up to active duty) students who left school to serve with a foreign aid service of the Federal Government

students who left school to serve on an official church mission

Column 52 [No longer enrolled] will be calculated for you. This includes students who dropped out as well as those who completed in greater than 150% of normal time.

Column 55 [Completers within 100%] is a subset of Column 11 [Completers within 150%]. These data are being requested so they can be preloaded into next year's Graduation Rates 200% survey component.

Cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students

Screen 1 of 2 Cohort year 2021



Adjusted Total Column 11, within 150% Completed Of those in

Initial Revised Total cohort transfer- Still those who No

cohort cohort exclusions (Col 10 - out enrolled completed of normal longer

Col 45) students within 100% of time to enrolled

completion

normal time to

completion

(Column 10) (Column 45) (Column 50) (Column 11) (Column 55) (Column 30) (Column 51) (Column 52)



Total men + women

Total men + women

prior year



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=34 2/11 Pell recipients and recipients of a subsidized Direct Loan who did not receive a Pell Grant





For each subcohort, report the number of students in the cohort, total exclusions for the cohort, and the number of students that completed a certificate or degree within 150% of normal time to completion.


Recipients of a Pell Grant and Recipients of a Direct Subsidized Loan that did not receive a Pell Grant are mutually exclusive, that is, if a student is in one cohort, they cannot be in the other cohort.

- The total of these 2 subcohorts must be less than the full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking cohort

Cohort of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students

Screen 2 of 2 Cohort year 2021

Number of students that

Number of students in completed within 150% of

Total exclusions

cohort normal time to

completion

(Column 10) (Column 45) (Column 11)

Full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking cohort

Recipients of a Pell Grant (within entering year)

Recipients of a Direct Subsidized Loan (within entering year) that did not

receive a Pell Grant

Did not receive either a Pell Grant or Direct Subsidized Loan (within entering

year)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=34 3/11 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data. The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS. Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=4&instructionid=30015&formid=34 4/11 Summary





Graduation Rate Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.

Overall Graduation Rate

Graduation Rate (%)

Total number of students in the Adjusted Cohort

Total number of completers within 150% of normal time



Overall Transfer-out Rate

Transfer-out Rate (%)

Total number of students in the Adjusted Cohort

Total number of transfers-out within 150% of normal time
