Which of the following types of for-credit instruction/programs are offered by your institution?

Provide the institution's mission statement or a web address (URL) where the mission statement can be found.

What is your institutional control or affiliation?

What award levels are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

What is the predominant calendar system at the institution? [Choose one]

Does your institution enroll any of the following types of students?

Does your institution enroll students in doctor's degree - professional practice programs?

Do you enroll students in one of the following?

For Fall 2018, did your institution have any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students enrolled in programs at the baccalaureate level or below? 

Is the institution part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution? 

Which of the following are available to veterans, military servicemembers, or their families?

Does your institution accept any of the following? [Check all that apply]

What types of special learning opportunities are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

If your institution grants a bachelor's degree or higher but does not offer a full 4-year program of study at the undergraduate level, how many years of completed college-level work are required for entrance?

Which of the following selected student services are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

Which of the following academic library resources or services does your institution provide? [Check all that apply]

Please indicate at what level(s) your institution does or does not offer distance education courses and/or distance education programs. Check all that apply.

Are all the programs at your institution offered exclusively via distance education programs?

Please indicate the percentage of all undergraduate students enrolled during Fall 2023 who were formally registered as students with disabilities with the institution's office of disability services (or the equivalent office).

Which of the following categories of noncredit education are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply] 

Is this institution a member of a national athletic association?

If this institution is a member of the NCAA or NAIA, specify the conference FOR EACH SPORT using the pull-down menu.

Does your institution have an open admission policy for all or most entering first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate-level students? 

Does your institution have access to a library collection?

Were your annual total library expenses for Fiscal Year 2024 greater than zero?

Was your institution in operation during the academic year 2023-24?

Institutional Characteristics Component Summary
