1. Select the option that best describes how your institution used any of the following data in its undergraduate selection process for the fall 2024 first-time

student cohort.

The options are:

Required to be considered for admission (not applicable for legacy status)

Not required for admission, but considered if submitted

Not considered for admission, even if submitted

Considered means that an institution includes an item in the package that is reviewed by admissions officers during the review process and the item may factor into a decision for admission.

Required to be Not considered for

Not required for admission,

Admission Considerations considered for admission, even if

but considered if submitted

admission submitted

Secondary school GPA

Secondary school rank

Secondary school record

Completion of college-preparatory program

Recommendations

Formal demonstration of competencies (e.g., portfolios, certificates of

mastery, assessment instruments)

Work experience

Personal statement or essay

Legacy status N/A

Admission test scores Required to be Not required for admission, Not considered for

Select options based on whether scores are required for admissions, not considered for but considered if submitted admission, even if

placement once admitted. admission (Test Optional) submitted (Test Blind)

SAT / ACT

Other Test (ATB, Wonderlic, WISC-III, etc.)

Note: If this is the only requirement other than a diploma or equivalent,

and few students are not admitted due to this test, your institution is

open enrollment. Please contact the Help Desk to correct your response

to this question.

English Proficiency Test (for applicable students)



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=14&instructionid=30102&formid=102 2/11 Selection Process - Applicants, Admits, and Enrolled

2. Provide the number of first-time, degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students who applied, who were admitted, and who enrolled (either full- or part-

time) at your institution for Fall 2024. Include early decision, early action, and students who began studies during the summer prior to Fall 2024.

Remember that this question applies only to first-time, degree/certificate-seeking undergraduates. Do not include any other students in these totals. Report admitted students who enrolled in the summer ONLY IF they remained enrolled into the fall.

Only include levels that you indicated were offered in the IC survey component. If you made an error in IC, please remember to fix the error next year.

The ‘gender unknown’ category will be determined by subtracting (men + women + another gender) from the Total.

Is your institution able to report another gender for the Fall 2024?

If you indicate 'No, my institution is not able to report another gender,' leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank (i.e., do not report 0). If you indicate 'No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students,' your institution collects data on another gender, but some cells have a value of less than 5 students, do not report the data and leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank. If you indicate 'Yes', but no students identified as another gender, please enter '0'.



No, my institution is not able to report another gender (do not report)

No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students (do not report)

Yes



Men Women Another gender Total Gender Unknown

Number of applicants

Number of admissions

Number (of admitted) that enrolled full-time

Number (of admitted) that enrolled part-time

Total enrolled full-time and part-time

Percent of admissions enrolled full-time and part-time



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=14&instructionid=30102&formid=102 3/11 Selection Process - Test Scores





3. Provide data for all students for whom a test score was used in the admissions decision for Fall 2024. Include new students admitted the summer prior to Fall 2024. If you report less than 5 students for any of the scores, do not report percentiles.


Institutions that use test scores for some students report the number of students for whom test scores were used.



Number of enrolled students for whom an SAT score was used in the admissions decision

Percent of enrolled students for whom an SAT score was used in the admissions decision

Number of enrolled students for whom an ACT score was used in the admissions decision

Percent of enrolled students for whom an ACT score was used in the admissions decision



Report the scores used in the admission decision, whether test scores are required or are only considered for admission. If you report less than 5 students for any of the scores, do not report percentiles.

Institutions that use test scores for some students report the percentile scores for the students for whom test scores were used.



50th Percentile

25th Percentile 75th Percentile

(median)

SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing

SAT Math



ACT Composite

ACT English

ACT Math



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=14&instructionid=30102&formid=102 4/11 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data.

The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS.

Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and

submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component?

Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=14&instructionid=30102&formid=102 5/11 Summary





Admissions Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



ADMISSION INFORMATION

Undergraduate Admissions Total Male Female

Number of applicants

Percent admitted (%)

Percent admitted who enrolled (%)

Admissions Considerations

Required

Not required, but Considered

Not Considered



Test Scores

Number of Submitting Scores Percent of Submitting Scores (%)

SAT

ACT



25th Percentile 50th Percentile 75th Percentile

SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing

SAT Math



ACT Composite

ACT English

ACT Math
