CIP Data

Institutions must report, by award level, whether programs are offered as distance education programs. If a program has a traditional offering and a distance education option, completions should be reported regardless of whether or not the program was completed through distance education.

Awards conferred between July1, 2023 and June 30, 2024

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

Check the box below only if there were zero students that were conferred an award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

No awards were conferred between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024.

Total

Men Men (PY) Women Women (PY)

(men+women)

U.S. Nonresident

Hispanic/Latino

American Indian or Alaska Native

Asian

Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific

Islander

White

Two or more races

Race and ethnicity unknown

TOTAL AWARDS



Is at least one program within this CIP code offered as a distance education program?

All programs in this CIP code in this award level can be completed entirely via distance education.

Some programs in this CIP code in this award level can be completed entirely via distance education.

None of the programs in this CIP code in this award level can be completed entirely via distance education.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 2/16 [Graduate students is applicable to institutions with graduate students only]

All Completers

All Completers

Institutions must report the following information. (Some data will be pre-populated from the completions by CIP code data.)

Number of students by gender and race and ethnicity earning an award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024. Count each student only once, regardless of how many awards he/she earned. The intent of this screen is to collect an unduplicated count of total numbers of completers.

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

Men Women

Total Students

Number of Total

Number of Students Total Awards

Students Awards

U.S. Nonresident

Hispanic/Latino

American Indian or Alaska Native

Asian

Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

White

Two or more races

Race and ethnicity unknown

TOTAL AWARDS

PY TOTAL AWARDS



Gender Unknown or Another Gender than Provided Categories

The purpose of this supplemental section is to determine whether institutions are able to report the number of students for whom gender is unknown and the number of students for whom gender does not align with the 'Men' and 'Women' categories. Note that these students must still be allocated into the 'Men' and 'Women' categories in all other sections of the survey component.

Institutions should not ask students that do not select a binary gender to allocate themselves to a binary gender category; it is up to the institution to allocate unknown students and students that indicate another gender into the binary categories throughout the forms where required. One method commonly used by institutions is to allocate these students to the binary categories required in other parts of the form using the proportion of men to women reported. The 'gender unknown' category is to report students for whom the institution does not know a gender.

Is your institution able to report another gender for the July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2024 reporting period? If you indicate 'No, my institution is not able to report another gender,' leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank (i.e., do not report 0). If you indicate 'No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students,' your institution collects data on another gender, but some cells have a value of less than 5 students, do not report the data and leave the cells in the rows for 'Another gender' blank. If you indicate 'Yes', but no students identified as another gender, please enter '0'.

Undergraduate students:

No, my institution is not able to report another gender (do not report)

No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students (do not report)

Yes

Graduate students:

No, my institution is not able to report another gender (do not report)

No, some cells will have a value of less than 5 students (do not report)

Yes

Of the total students reported, how many students did you allocate to a binary gender category (Men/Women) because their gender was unknown or another gender than the provided categories?

Number of students

Undergraduate Graduate

Total PY Total

students students

Grand total

Gender unknown (i.e., gender information is not known or not collected).

Another gender (i.e., gender information is known but does not fall into either of the mutually exclusive binary categories provided [Men/Women]).

Total of Gender unknown + Another gender



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 3/16

Total of Students for whom gender is known and falls into one of the mutually

exclusive binary categories provided [Men/Women]



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 4/16 [Institutions complete this page for each award level they report]





Completers by Level


Completers by Level

Institutions must report the number of students who earned an award by level. This screen will be shown for each of the following consolidated award levels for which there is a reported completion:

Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of:

Less than 300 clock hours, or

Less than 9 SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

Less than 13 QUARTER credit hours

Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of:

300-899 clock hours, or

9-29 SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

13-44 QUARTER credit hours

Postsecondary awards, certificates, or diplomas of:

900 or more clock hours, or

30 or more SEMESTER or TRIMESTER credit hours, or

45 or more QUARTER credit hours

Associate's degrees

Bachelor's degrees

Master's degrees

Doctor's degrees

Postbaccalaureate and post-master's certificates

[Award Level]

Number of students by gender, by race and ethnicity, and by age earning this award between July 1, 2023 and June 30, 2024. Each student should be counted once per award level. For example, if a student earned a master's degree and a doctor's degree, he/she should be counted once in master's and once in doctor's. A student earning two master's degrees should be counted only once.

Report Hispanic/Latino individuals of any race as Hispanic/Latino

Report race for non-Hispanic/Latino individuals only

By Gender

Number of Students Total Awards

Men

Women

TOTAL

PY TOTAL



By Race/Ethnicity

Number of Students Total Awards

U.S. Nonresident

Hispanic/Latino

American Indian or Alaska Native

Asian

Black or African American

Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander

White

Two or more races

Race and ethnicity unknown

TOTAL



By Age

Number of Students Total Awards

Under 18

18-24

25-39

40 and Above

Age Unknown

TOTAL



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 5/16





Prepared by




Prepared by

Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data.

The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS.

Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and

submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=10&instructionid=30080&formid=80 6/16 Summary





Completion Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.

Summary of Completions Data

Number of Completions

Award Level

1st major 2st major

1a - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- less than 300 clock hours, or

- less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- less than 13 quarter credit hours

1b - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 300-899 clock hours, or

- 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 13-44 quarter credit hours

2 - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or

- at least 30 but less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours

3 - Associate's degree

4 - Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 1,800 or more clock hours, or

- 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 90 or more quarter credit hours

5 - Bachelor's degree or equivalent

6 - Postbaccalaureate certificate

7 - Master's degree

8 - Post-master's certificate

17 - Doctor's degree - research/scholarship

18 - Doctor's degree - professional practice

19 - Doctor's degree - other

Total number of degrees and certificates



Summary of Completers Data

Number of Students

Men Women Total

All Completers
