2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Student Financial Aid for institutions with graduate students only

Overview

IPEDS Student Financial Aid Component Overview

Welcome to the Student Financial Aid (SFA) Survey component. As a graduate school, the purpose of the SFA component is to collect information about your students who have received military assistance and certain veteran educational benefits.



Data Reporting Reminders:

Report data to accurately reflect the period(s) corresponding with the IPEDS survey component requested, even if such reporting seems inconsistent with

prior-year reporting.

Interactive Edits and Error Messages

The SFA survey component contains interactive edits to check for blank fields, invalid values, or values outside expected ranges. Some error messages

require you to confirm or explain the values entered whereas other error messages are fatal and require you to contact the IPEDS Help Desk at (877) 225-2568

for resolution.

Context Boxes

You will find optional text boxes throughout the SFA survey component. These text boxes allow you to provide more information or context about the data

entered. Some context boxes may be made available to the public on College Navigator, so make sure the information you enter can be understood easily by

students, parents, and the public.



Changes to reporting:

The following changes were implemented for the 2024-25 data collection period:

Updated the SFA Survey form and instructions based on legislative changes, U.S. Department of Education guidance, and industry practices.

Applied the screening question from Section 2 to all institutions.

Applied the context box from Section 2 to all institutions.

Eliminated the multiple forms that were historically presented on the survey materials page; however, there remain differences in how institutions report.

Those differences are indicated in gold text on the single remaining form as presented to OMB. Institutions will not see the gold text and will only see the

screens that are applicable to them.



Resources:

To download the survey materials for this component: Survey Materials



If you have questions about completing this survey, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 1/10 Section 2: Military Servicemembers and Veteran's Benefits - Undergraduate and Graduate Students

Section 2: Screening Question

1. Did your institution participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill or U.S. Department of Defense Military Tuition Assistance benefit

programs during the 2023-24 award period? (You are required to complete Section 2 of the SFA Survey if you answer “Yes” to this screening question.)?

No

Yes, please check all programs available to students at your institution.

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill

U.S. Department of Defense Military Tuition Assistance



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 2/10 Section 2: Military Servicemembers and Veteran's Benefits - Graduate Students





Section 2: Military Servicemembers and Veteran's Benefits - Graduate Students


Instructions:

Report for Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits: July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2024.

Report for Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program: October 1, 2023 - September 30, 2024

Information for ALL programs offered by the institution.



Reporting Reminders:

Report student counts and total benefit amounts disbursed known to the institution for the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill Program.

Report student counts and disbursed amounts received and disbursed by the institution for the U.S. Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program.

Report unduplicated student counts within a category (e.g., Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits), however, a student can appear in both categories (i.e., a student can be

counted as a Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits recipient and a Department of Defense Tuition Assistance recipient).

Student recipients can also include eligible dependents.

A student may receive benefits at the undergraduate level and the graduate level during award period.

Consult with your campus certifying official, who may not be in the student financial aid office.

For Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits, do not include the institutional or state matching share for aid provided through the Yellow Ribbon Program if your school

participated.

Do not leave a cell blank. Enter zero (0) if your institution did not have recipients for the financial assistance program or program level.



U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI-Bill Benefits

YOUR CURRENT YEAR DATA YOUR PRIOR YEAR DATA

Number of students Total dollar amount of

Average dollar amount of Average dollar amount of

Type of disbursed benefits/assistance

benefits/assistance disbursed benefits/assistance disbursed

benefit/assistance benefits/assistance disbursed

known to institution known to institution

known to the institution known to institution

Col 1 Col 2 Col 3 Col 4

Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits

02 Graduate students



U.S. Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program

YOUR CURRENT YEAR DATA YOUR PRIOR YEAR DATA

Number of students Total dollar amount of

Average dollar amount of Average dollar amount of

who received benefits/assistance received

Type of benefits/assistance received benefits/assistance received

benefits/assistance and

benefit/assistance and disbursed through the and disbursed through the

disbursed through the disbursed through the

institution institution

institution institution

Col 1 Col 2 Col 3 Col 4

Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program

05 Graduate students



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 3/10 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data.

The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS.

Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and

submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 4/10 Summary





Student Financial Aid Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.



Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



GENERAL INFORMATION

Reporter Type

Calendar System

Award Levels Offered

Levels of Enrollment Offered

System



Military Service Members and Veteran's Benefits

Total dollar amount of

Number of students

Type of benefit/assistance benefits/assistance disbursed

receiving benefits/assistance

through the institution

Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits

Undergraduate students

Graduate students

Total

Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program

Undergraduate students

Graduate students

Total



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 5/10 Student Financial Aid, Institutions with Graduate Students Only



Overview





Table of Contents


The Student Financial Aid (SFA) survey component is divided into two sections. Section 1 collects data for undergraduate students only. Section 2 collects data for undergraduate and graduate military and veteran students. As you complete both sections of SFA, please refer to the "Where to Get Help" and "Where the Data Will Appear" sections.

Where to Get Help

Where the Data Will Appear

Purpose of Survey Component

Changes in Reporting

Section 2. Military Servicemembers and Veteran Students with Benefits

Purpose

What Not to Include

Instructions

Reporting Reminders



Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org

Web Tutorials

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools, and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g., academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Data Collection Information

Here you will find links to:

Information on IPEDS data reporting and data uses;

The data collection schedule and survey materials;

Current and archived survey changes; and

Current announcements.

IPEDS Survey Components

Here you will find:

Information on each IPEDS survey component, which includes job aids and FAQs, and

A link to the IPEDS Survey Methodology.

Reporting Guides and Reporting Tools

Here you will find reporting guides such as glossaries, handbooks, instructions, and software provider resources. Reporting tools include links to IPEDS tutorials; the IPEDS Survey Components and Data Collection Cycle reporting tool, reporting tips, FAQs, and other reporting tools.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS Use the Data portal

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS Data Explorer

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education

Projections of Education Statistics





Purpose of Survey Component



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 6/10

The purpose of the IPEDS Student Financial Aid (SFA) survey component is to collect information about financial aid provided to various categories and sub-

categories of undergraduate and graduate students at your institution to meet requirements of the:

Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA), as amended,

Executive Order No. 13607, Establishing Principles of Excellence for Educational Institutions Serving Service Members, Veterans, Spouses, and Other

Family Members, and

Improving Transparency of Education Opportunities for Veterans Act.

The U.S. Department of Education, Department of Defense, and Department of Veteran’s Administration collaborated with the education community to develop

consumer information and outcome measures to help military students and their families make informed decisions about attending postsecondary schools.

Beginning with the 2014-15 data collection year, SFA expanded to collect information on the federal dollars supporting military servicemember and veteran

undergraduate and graduate students. Continuous improvement efforts at each agency have led to refined and expanded consumer information that student

and families may use to make informed postsecondary education decisions.

Student counts and dollar amounts are collected for:

All undergraduate students,

Degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students,

Full-time, first-time (FTFT) degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students,

Non-degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students, and

Undergraduate and graduate students who received certain military service and/or veterans education benefits.





Changes in reporting

The following changes were implemented for the 2024-25 data collection period:

Moved the cost of attendance and average net price data items to the new IPEDS Cost (CST) survey component.

Updated the SFA Survey form and instructions based on legislative changes, U.S. Department of Education guidance, and industry practices.

Applied the screening question from Section 2 to all institutions.

Applied the context box from Section 2 to all institutions.

Clarified loans to students reported in Section 1, Part C, Line 7 include private education loans.

Clarified Fall Enrollment (EF) student counts are carried forward and used to calculate average aid amounts and percentages for academic reporters

whereas 12-Month Enrollment (E12) student counts are carried forward and used to calculate average aid amount and percentages for program reporters

throughout the survey.

Eliminated the multiple forms that were historically presented on the survey materials page; however, there remain differences in how institutions report.

Those differences are indicated in gold text on the single remaining form as presented to OMB. Institutions will not see the gold text and will only see the

screens that are applicable to them.





Section 2. Military Servicemembers and Veteran Students with Benefits



Purpose of Survey Component

The purpose of this section is to collect student counts and financial assistance amounts known to the institution disbursed to undergraduate and graduate students enrolled during the 2023-24 academic year.



Detailed Instruction

This section provides line-by-line instructions for reporting Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits and Department of Defense Tuition Assistance to IPEDS.

Screening Question

Indicate whether your institution participated in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill or U.S. Department of Defense Military Tuition Assistance benefit programs during the 2023-24 award period. If your institution participated in either program, check yes and check which program(s) your institution participated in. Responding ‘Yes’ to this question means your institution will report Section 2.

What NOT to Include

Do not report the following aid types in student counts and total benefit amounts:

Post-9/11 GI Bill Yellow Ribbon program institutional or state match,

VA Work Study, or

ROTC aid, which is excluded from estimated financial assistance, also known as EFA.



Reporting Reminders:

Report student counts and total benefit amounts disbursed known to the institution for the U.S. Department Veteran's Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill Program.

Report student counts and disbursed amounts received and disbursed by the institution for the U.S. Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program.

Report unduplicated student counts within a category (e.g., Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits), however, a student can appear in both categories (i.e., a student

can be counted as a Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits recipient and a Department of Defense Tuition Assistance recipient).

Student recipients can also include eligible dependents.

A student may receive benefits at the undergraduate level and the graduate level during award period.

Consult with your campus certifying official, who may not be in the student financial aid office.

For Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits, do not include the institutional or state matching share for aid provided through the Yellow Ribbon Program if your school

participated.

Do not leave a cell blank. Enter zero (0) if your institution did not have recipients for the financial assistance program or program level.

Line Description

Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits for undergraduate and graduate students.

The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs provides up to 36 months of Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits for tuition and fees; books and supplies;

and housing for veterans who served on active duty after September 10, 2001.The tuition and fees are disbursed to the institution—

passed through the institution to the student.

Report student counts and disbursed amounts known to the institution for tuition and fees; books and supplies; and housing benefits for

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 7/10 students enrolled during the prior 2023-24 academic year and disbursed for the July 1, 2023, to June 30, 2024, award period.

Note: It is possible to disburse benefits to a student enrolled for the academic year at the undergraduate level and the graduate levels. If benefits were disbursed to a student at the undergraduate and graduate levels for the award period, count the student and the aid disbursed at both levels. For example, if $500 for tuition and fees was disbursed to A student as an undergraduate student and $800 for tuition and fees was disbursed to A student as a graduate student, (1) count The student once as an undergraduate and include the $500 disbursed in the total dollar amount of benefits/assistance disbursed to undergraduate students and (2) count The student once as a graduate student and include the $800 disbursed in the total dollar amount of benefits/assistance disbursed to graduate students.

It is also possible for a student to received Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits and Department of Defense Tuition Assistance during the same academic year. If benefits were disbursed to a student for both programs during the reporting periods requested, count the student and report the aid disbursed for both programs.

Lastly, it is possible Post-9/11 benefits for the reporting period were disbursed after the last day of the award period. Include funds disbursed after June 30, 2024, for the prior 2023-24 award period.

Do not include Yellow Ribbon Program institutional or state match.

01 Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits disbursed to undergraduate students. Report Post-9/11 tuition and fees, books and supplies,

and housing benefits disbursed to undergraduate students known to the institution.

Do not include graduate students or Yellow Ribbon Program institutional or state match.

Column 1. Unduplicated number of undergraduate students disbursed benefits through the institution. (Reported

value)

This is an unduplicated student count. Report the total number of undergraduate students disbursed Post-9/11 GI Bill education

benefits for the award period known to the institution.

Column 2. Total dollar amount of benefits disbursed to undergraduate students known to the institution. (Reported

value)

Column 3. Average dollar amount of benefits disbursed to undergraduate students known to the institution.

(Calculated value)

Column 4. Average dollar amount of benefits disbursed to undergraduate students known to the institution. (Prior

year value)

02 Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits disbursed to graduate student. Report Post-9/11 tuition and fee, books and supplies, and

housing benefits disbursed to graduate students known to the institution.

Do not include undergraduate students or Yellow Ribbon Program institutional or state match.

Column 1. Unduplicated number of graduate students disbursed benefits through the institution. (Reported value)

This is an unduplicated student count. Report the total number of graduate students disbursed Post-9/11 GI Bill education

benefits for the award period known to the institution.

Column 2. Total dollar amount of benefits disbursed to graduate students known to the institution. (Reported value)

Column 3. Average dollar amount of benefits disbursed to graduate students known to the institution. (Calculated

value)

Column 4. Average dollar amount of benefits disbursed to graduate students known to the institution. (Prior year

value)

03 Post-9/11 GI Benefits Program Totals.

Column 1. Total number of undergraduate and graduate students disbursed benefits known to the institution.

(Calculated value)

This is the total number students at all program levels disbursed benefits/assistance. The is not an unduplicated count since a

student disbursed benefits at the undergraduate and graduate levels for the same award period may be counted once at each

level.

Column 2. Total dollar amount of benefits disbursed to all students known to the institution. (Reported value)

Column 3. Average dollar amount of benefits disbursed to all students known to the institution. (Calculated value)

Column 4. Average dollar amount of benefits disbursed to all students known to the institution. (Prior year value)

Department of Defense Tuition Assistance for undergraduate and graduate students.

The U.S. Department of Defense's Military Tuition Assistance (TA) program is a federal program available to eligible servicemembers. It includes active-duty military, selected reserve, coast guard, and army national guard personnel and pays up to 100% of college tuition and course-specific fees for enrollment at a U.S. Department of Education accredited postsecondary institution to support voluntary off-duty professional and self-development education goals.

Funds disbursed are paid directly to the institution—passed through the institution to the student.

Report tuition and fee benefits for students enrolled during the prior 2023-24 academic year and disbursed for the October 1, 2023, to September 30, 2024, award period.

Note: It is possible for the institution to disburse benefits to a student enrolled for the academic year at the undergraduate level and the graduate levels. If the institution disbursed benefits to a student at the undergraduate and graduate levels for the award period, count the student and the aid disbursed at both levels. For example, if $700 for tuition and fees was disbursed to A student as an undergraduate student and $500 for tuition and fees was disbursed to A student as a graduate student, (1) count The student once as an undergraduate and include the $700 disbursed in the total dollar amount of benefits/assistance disbursed to undergraduate students and (2) count The student once as a graduate student and include the $500 disbursed in the total dollar amount of benefits/assistance disbursed to graduate students.

It is also possible for a student to received Department of Defense Tuition Assistance and Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits during the same academic year. If a student was disbursed benefits for both programs during the reporting periods requested, count the student and report the benefit for both programs.

Lastly, it is possible for an institution to received and disburse Department of Defense Tuition Assistance for the reporting period after the last day of the award period. Include funds received and disbursed after September 30, 2024, for the prior 2023-24 award period.

04 Department of Defense Tuition Assistance received and disbursed to undergraduate students. Report TA benefits

received and disbursed to undergraduate students.

Do not include graduate students.

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 8/10

Column 1. Unduplicated number of undergraduate students who received assistance disbursed through the institution. (Reported value)

This is an unduplicated student count. Report the total number of undergraduate students disbursed TA benefits for the award period.

Column 2. Total dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to undergraduate students through the institution. (Reported value)

Column 3. Average dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to undergraduate students through the institution. (Calculated value)

Column 4. Average dollar amount of benefits/assistance received and disbursed to undergraduate students through the institution. (Prior year value)

05 Department of Defense Tuition Assistance received and disbursed to graduate student. Report TA benefits received and

disbursed to graduate students.

Do not include undergraduate students.

Column 1. Unduplicated number of graduate students who received assistance disbursed through the institution. (Reported value)

This is an unduplicated student count. Report the total number of graduate students disbursed TA benefits for the award period.

Column 2. Total dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to graduate students through the institution. (Reported value)

Column 3. Average dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to graduate students through the institution. (Calculated value)

Column 4. Average dollar amount of benefits/assistance received and disbursed to graduate students through the institution. (Prior year value)

06 Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Totals.

Column 1. Total number of undergraduate and graduate students who received assistance disbursed through the institution. (Calculated value)

This is the total number students at all program levels disbursed assistance through the institution. The is not an unduplicated count since a student disbursed aid at the undergraduate and graduate levels for the same award period may be counted once at each level.

Column 2. Total dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to all students through the institution. (Calculated value)

Column 3. Average dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to all students through the institution. (Calculated value)

Column 4. Average dollar amount of assistance received and disbursed to all students through the institution. (Prior year value)





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 9/10 Glossary

Term Definition

Cohort year The year that a cohort of students begins attending college.

Cross-over award period A term or period of enrollment in a course or program that begins in one award year and ends in the subsequent award year.

A part-time work program awarding on- or off-campus jobs to students who demonstrate financial need. FWS positions are primarily funded by the federal government (federal share), but are also partially funded by other organizations, including the institution (non-federal share). FWS is awarded to eligible students by the college as part of the student's financial aid package.

Federal Work Study (FWS)

The maximum FWS award is based on the student's financial need, the number of hours the student is able to work, and the amount of FWS funding available at the institution. This is a type of Title IV Aid, but it is not considered grant or loan aid to students.

The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), conducted by the NCES, began in 1986 and involves annual

institution-level data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation Agreement with the Office of

Integrated Postsecondary Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report

Education Data System data using a web-based data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional

(IPEDS) Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Admissions (ADM); Student Financial Aid (SFA); Human

Resources (HR) composed of Employees by Assigned Position, Fall Staff, and Salaries; Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates

(GR); Outcome Measures (OM); Finance (F); and Academic Libraries (AL).

A program that funds up to 100% of an eligible servicemember's college tuition and course-specific fees. Available only to

Military Tuition Assistance eligible servicemembers who are currently in active service as long as criteria limits are not exceeded and students are enrolled (TAP) Program off-duty in an U.S. Department of Education accredited post-secondary institution. This military benefit is paid directly to the

postsecondary institution by the individual's Armed service.

A federal education benefit program for veterans, who served on active duty after September 10, 2001. This Department of Veteran Affairs benefit provides up to 36 months of education benefits at an approved institution for the following college costs:

Post 9/11 GI Bill tuition and fees, books and supplies, and housing. The tuition and fees payment, which is the cost for an in-state student

attending a public institution, is made directly to the postsecondary institution whereas payments for books and supplies and housing are sent directly to the student.

Title IV aid to students includes grant aid, work study aid, and loan aid. Current and historical programs include: Federal Pell

Grant, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG), Academic Competitiveness Grant (ACG), National Science and Mathematics Access to Retain Talent Grant (National SMART Grant), Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher

Title IV aid

Education (TEACH) Grant, Federal Work-Study, Federal Perkins Loan (formerly the National Direct Student loan or NDSL

program), Subsidized and Unsubsidized Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) also known as the Stafford Loan (formerly the Guaranteed Student Loan or GSL program), and Subsidized and Unsubsidized William D. Ford Direct Loan.

An institution that has a written agreement with the Secretary of Education that allows the institution to participate in any of the Title IV federal student financial assistance programs (other than the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP,

Title IV institution

formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG and the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership or NEISP programs).

A program through which any unused Post 9/11 GI Bill may be transferred to a spouse or dependent(s) as long as

Transfer of Entitlement Option servicemembers or veterans meet the additional Department of Veterans Affairs criteria. Only Department of Defense (DoD) can

approve transfer of benefits requests.

A voluntary program through which participating public and private institutions can provide veterans and eligible beneficiaries additional institutional aid to cover the costs of tuition and fees at their institutions. The Yellow Ribbon Program is a

Yellow Ribbon Program

supplementary program to the Post 9/11 GI Bill coverage of in-state tuition and fees. The Department of Veterans Affairs matches the institutional aid provided beyond the in-state tuition and fees, but up to a certain limit each year.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30110&formid=20 10/10





