Part A - Establish Your Student Counts

Instructions:

In the fields below, report student counts for the reporting period requested for each student category and financial aid type. Reporting period loaded based on reporter type: Academic Reporter (AR) OR Program Reporter (PR). Section 1 is applicable to institutions offering undergraduate programs, as determined by the following items in Institutional Characteristics (IC):

Q3, award level = 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6; or

Q5, Undergraduate (undergraduate or occupational programs), full-time or part-time = Yes; or First-time degree/certificate seeking undergraduate, Full-time or Part-time = Yes.

Reporting Reminders:

Part A establishes student counts.

The numbers on this screen are carried forward to other parts of the Student Financial Aid Survey component and checked for consistency with data reported in other survey components.



YOUR CURRENT YEAR YOUR PRIOR YEAR

STUDENT COUNTS DATA DATA

Fall 2023 Fall 2022

02 All undergraduate students

All degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students

03

Of those on line 02, those who are degree/certificate-seeking

04 Of those on line 02, those who are non-degree/non-certificate-seeking (Line 02 – Line 03)

All full-time, first-time degree certificate-seeking undergraduate students

05

Of those on line 03, those who are full-time, first-time

Of those on line 05, those awarded any:

Federal Work Study,

Loans to students,

06

Grant or scholarship aid from the federal government, state/local government, the

institution, or

Other sources known to the institution

Of those on line 05, those awarded any:

loans to students or

07

Grant or scholarship aid from the federal government, state/local government, or the

institution



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 2/27 Section 1 - Student Financial Aid - Undergraduate Students Part B - UG Student Counts and Financial Aid Award Amounts

Part B - Enter Student Counts and Financial Aid Award Amounts

Instructions:

In the fields below, report student counts and the total financial aid amount awarded for each student category and financial aid type for the reporting period requested. Enter unduplicated student counts within each aid type (e.g., Federal Pell Grants). However, a student can appear in more than one financial aid program group.

Reporting Reminders:

Reported values must be consistent with the Information from Part A carried forward to this screen.

Report students awarded Federal Pell Grant enrolled in post-baccalaureate teacher certification or licensure programs, or courses required by a state to obtain

certification to teach the state as undergraduate students.

Report all other students, including students with intellectual disabilities enrolled in a U.S. Department of Education approved comprehensive transition and

postsecondary (CTP) program, at the degree/certificate program level assigned by the institution.

If students are not admitted and enrolled as degree/certificate seeking taking prerequisites (preparatory courses) offered as part of a Title IV eligible program

to satisfy entrance requirements for a Title IV eligible program at your institution or another institution, report them as non-degree/certificate seeking

undergraduates.



For this part, report:

For These Students The Following Type(s) of Aid Awarded in This Period

Grant or scholarship aid from:

federal government

state/local government

All undergraduate students enrolled in Fall

the institution Any time during academic

2023 for the 2023-24 academic year as

other sources known to the year 2023-24

defined by the institution

institution

Loans to students from:

the federal government

Information from Part A Fall 2023

All undergraduate students (This number is carried forward from Part A, Line 02.)

Degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students (This number is carried forward from Part A, Line 03.)

Non-degree/non-certificate-seeking undergraduate students (This number is carried forward from Part A, Line 04.)



In the fields below, report the student counts and the total amount of aid awarded for each aid type and student category.

2023-24 Academic Year as defined by the institution

All non-degree/non-certificate-seeking

All undergraduate All degree/certificate-seeking undergraduates

undergraduates

Number

students Total

Number Percentage Number Percentage Percentage

Aid Type Average Average who amount Average

students of students Total students of students Total of students

amount of amount of were of aid amount

who were who were amount of who were who were amount of who were

aid awarded aid awarded awarded awarded of aid

awarded awarded aid awarded awarded awarded aid awarded awarded

(Col.3/Col.1) (Col.7/Col.5) aid (Col.3- awarded

aid aid aid aid aid

(Col.1- Col.7) Col.5)

Col. 1 Col. 2 Col. 3 Col. 4 Col. 5 Col. 6 Col. 7 Col. 8 Col. 9 Col. 10 Col. 11 Col. 12

Grant or scholarship

aid from the federal

government,

state/local

government, the

01

institution, and other

sources known to

the institution (Do

NOT include federal

student loans)

02 Federal Pell Grants

Federal loans to

03

students



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context

notes will be posted on the College Navigator website. Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).

Non-applicable



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 3/27

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 4/27 Section 1 - Student Financial Aid- Full-time, First-time Undergraduate Students Part C - FTFT Degree/certificate-seeking UG



Part C - Enter Information about full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students.

Instructions:

In the fields below, report student counts and the total financial aid amount awarded for full-time, first-time degree/certificate seeking undergraduates only for each financial aid type. Enter unduplicated student counts within each aid category (e.g., Federal Pell Grants). However, a student can appear in more than one financial aid program group.

Reporting Reminders:

Reported values must be consistent with the Information from Part A carried forward to this screen.

Report all other students, including students with intellectual disabilities enrolled in a U.S. Department of Education approved comprehensive transition and

postsecondary (CTP) program, at the degree/certificate program level assigned by the institution.

For this part, report:

For These Students The Following Type(s) of Aid Awarded in This Period

Grant or scholarship aid from:

federal government

state/local government

the institution

Loans to students from:

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking

the federal government Any time during academic year

undergraduate students enrolled in Fall 2023 for the

other sources, including private or other loans 2023-24

2023-24 academic year as defined by the institution

Do not include:

grant or scholarship aid from private or other

sources

PLUS loans or loans made to anyone other than

the student



Information from Part A Fall 2023

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students

(This number is carried forward from Part A, Line 05)

(This number is carried forward from Part A, Line 06)

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students awarded:

Federal Work Study

Loans to students

Grant or scholarship aid from the federal government, state/local government, or the institution

Other sources known to the institution

(This number is carried forward from Part A, Line 07)

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students awarded:

Loans to students

Grant or scholarship aid from the federal government, state/local government, or the institution



Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students (Part A, Line 05)

YOUR PRIOR

CURRENT YEAR DATA

YEAR DATA

2023-24 2022-23

Aid Type

Average amount Average amount

Number of Percentage of Total amount of

of aid awarded of aid awarded

FTFT students FTFT students aid awarded to

to FTFT to FTFT

awarded aid awarded aid FTFT students

students students

Col. 1 Col. 2 Col. 3 Col. 4 Col. 5

Grants or scholarships from the federal

01 government, state/local government, or the

institution

02 Federal grants and scholarship aid

03 Federal Pell Grants

Other federal grants and

04

scholarship aid

State/local government grant or

scholarship aid

05

(includes fellowships/tuition

waivers/exemptions)

Institutional grant or scholarship aid

06 (includes fellowships/tuition

waivers/exemptions)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 5/27

07 Loans to students

08 Federal loans to students

Other loans to students (including

09

private loans)



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).

Non-applicable



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 6/27 Section 1 - Comparison Chart

Summary Data by Student Category and Financial Aid Type

Instructions:

The SFA Comparison Chart provides a summary of the data reported in Section 1 of the survey. Summary data is based on the preloaded data and

information reported on the previous screens in this section for all undergraduate students and full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate

students.

Values displayed for All undergraduate students, All degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students, and All non-degree/certificate seeking

undergraduate students should match the values reported in Section 1, Part B;

Values displayed for Full-time, First-time degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students should match the values reported in Section 1, Part C; and

NCES calculated values for the student count and total amount of aid awarded for All other degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students should

be the difference between the values reported for All undergraduate students and Full-time, first-time degree/certificate seeking undergraduate

students.

If values displayed do not match your institution’s calculations, please correct the numbers reported before moving forward to complete Section 2 of the SFA

Survey.

Data for all degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students and full-time, first-time degree/certificate undergraduate students are published on College

Navigator.

Note:

Data for the 'all other degree/certificate undergraduate' students and all non-degree/certificate undergraduate students will appear in the IPEDS Data Center

for data users, but not in College Navigator.

2023-24 Academic Year 2023-24 Academic Year 2023-24

Student Categories Number of students Federal Pell grants Federal Student Loans

Col. 1 Col. 2 Col. 3

01 All undergraduates

01a Number of students awarded aid

01b Percentage awarded aid

01c Total amount of aid awarded

01d Average amount of aid awarded

02 All degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students

02a Number of students awarded aid

02b Percentage awarded aid

02c Total amount of aid awarded

01d Average amount of aid awarded

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate seeking

03

undergraduate students

03a Number of students awarded aid

03b Percentage awarded aid

03c Total amount of aid awarded

03d Average amount of aid awarded

04 All other degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students

04a Number of students awarded aid

04b Percentage awarded aid

04c Total amount of aid awarded

04d Average amount of aid awarded

05 All non-degree/non-certificate-seeking undergraduate students

05a Number of students awarded aid

05b Percentage awarded aid

05c Total amount of aid awarded

05d Average amount of aid awarded



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 7/27 Section 2: Military Servicemembers and Veteran's Benefits - Undergraduate and Graduate Students





Section 2: Screening Question


1. Did your institution participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill or U.S. Department of Defense Military Tuition Assistance benefit

programs during the 2023-24 award period? (You are required to complete Section 2 of the SFA Survey if you answer “Yes” to this screening question.)?

No

Yes, please check all programs available to students at your institution.

U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill

U.S. Department of Defense Military Tuition Assistance



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 8/27 Section 2: Military Servicemembers and Veteran's Benefits - Undergraduate and Graduate Students





Section 2: Military Servicemembers and Veteran's Benefits - Undergraduate and Graduate Students


Instructions:

Report for Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits: July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2024.

Report for Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program: October 1, 2023 - September 30, 2024

Information for ALL programs offered by the institution.

Reporting Reminders:

Report student counts and total benefit amounts disbursed known to the institution for the U.S. Department of Veteran's Affairs Post-9/11 GI Bill Program.

Report student counts and disbursed amounts received and disbursed by the institution for the U.S. Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program.

Report unduplicated student counts within a category (e.g., Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits), however, a student can appear in both categories (i.e., a student can be

counted as a Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits recipient and a Department of Defense Tuition Assistance recipient).

Student recipients can also include eligible dependents.

A student may receive benefits at the undergraduate level and the graduate level during award period.

Consult with your campus certifying official, who may not be in the student financial aid office.

For Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits, do not include the institutional or state matching share for aid provided through the Yellow Ribbon Program if your school

participated.

Do not leave a cell blank. Enter zero (0) if your institution did not have recipients for the financial assistance program or program level.



U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 GI-Bill Benefits

YOUR CURRENT YEAR DATA YOUR PRIOR YEAR DATA

Number of students Total dollar amount of

Average dollar amount of Average dollar amount of

Type of disbursed benefits/assistance

benefits/assistance disbursed benefits/assistance disbursed

benefit/assistance benefits/assistance disbursed

known to institution known to institution

known to the institution known to institution

Col 1 Col 2 Col 3 Col 4

Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits

01 Undergraduate

students

02 Graduate students

03 Total



U.S. Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program

YOUR CURRENT YEAR DATA YOUR PRIOR YEAR DATA

Number of students Total dollar amount of

Average dollar amount of Average dollar amount of

who received benefits/assistance received

Type of benefits/assistance received benefits/assistance received

benefits/assistance and

benefit/assistance and disbursed through the and disbursed through the

disbursed through the disbursed through the

institution institution

institution institution

Col 1 Col 2 Col 3 Col 4

Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program

04 Undergraduate

students

05 Graduate students

06Total



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 9/27 Prepared by





Prepared by


Reporting Reminders:

The name of the preparer is being collected so that we can follow up with the appropriate person in the event that there are questions concerning the data. The Keyholder will be copied on all email correspondence to other preparers.

The time it took to prepare this component is being collected so that we can continue to improve our estimate of the reporting burden associated with IPEDS. Please include in your estimate the time it took for you to review instructions, query and search data sources, complete and review the component, and submit the data through the Data Collection System.

Thank you for your assistance.



This survey component was prepared by:

Keyholder SFA Contact HR Contact

Finance Contact Academic Library Contact Other

Name:

Email:



How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

Number of Staff (including yourself)



How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component? Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Revising Data to Match

Staff member Collecting Data Needed Entering Data Revising and Locking Data

IPEDS Requirements

Your office hours hours hours hours

Other offices hours hours hours hours



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 10/27 Summary





Student Financial Aid Component Summary


The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



GENERAL INFORMATION

Reporter Type

Calendar System

Award Levels Offered

Levels of Enrollment Offered

System



Financial Aid Information Summary

2023-24 Academic Year 2023-24 Academic Year 2023-24

Number of

Federal Pell grants Federal Student Loans

students

01 All degree/certificate seeking undergraduate students

02 Number of students awarded aid

03 Percentage awarded aid

04 Total amount of aid awarded

05 Average amount of aid awarded

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate seeking

06

undergraduate students

07 Number of students awarded aid

08 Percentage awarded aid

09 Total amount of aid awarded

10 Average amount of aid awarded

All other degree/certificate seeking

11

undergraduate students

12 Number of students awarded aid

13 Percentage awarded aid

14 Total amount of aid awarded

15 Average amount of aid awarded

All non-degree/non-certificate-seeking undergraduate

16

students

17 Number of students awarded aid

18 Percentage awarded aid

19 Total amount of aid awarded

20 Average amount of aid awarded



Military Service Members and Veteran's Benefits

Total dollar amount of

Number of students

Type of benefit/assistance benefits/assistance disbursed

receiving benefits/assistance

through the institution

Post-9/11 GI Bill Benefits

Undergraduate students

Graduate students



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=7&instructionid=30016&formid=16 11/27

Total

Department of Defense Tuition Assistance Program

Undergraduate students

Graduate students

Total
