2024-25 IPEDS HELP DESK (877) 225-2568 | ipedshelp@rti.org

Data Collection System OMB NO. 1850-0582 v.33 : Approval Expires 8/31/2027



2024-25 Survey Materials  Form



Institutional Characteristics for private 2-year institutions

Overview

IC Overview

Welcome to the Institutional Characteristics (IC) survey component. This survey component collects directory information, including data that are key to reporting throughout the IPEDS data collection and must be completed and locked before any other survey can be started. Any errors in the IC survey component can lead to further errors in the data reporting process, so please be very careful in reporting these data correctly and contact the IPEDS Help Desk (877.225.2568) if you have any questions.

This survey component also collects basic institutional information including student services and athletic association.

The IC should be completed based on the current year. Some IC questions may require nothing more than a confirmation if nothing has changed. Please make changes as necessary, and complete items that do need a response (e.g., enrollment questions).

Remember, it is the responsibility of the keyholder to provide NCES with accurate data about the institution. Please never hesitate to call the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568 and ask for help to make sure that you are reporting correctly!

Because of the importance of the IC data in Section 1 (Header Information) in determining the screens you will receive in other survey components, be sure to report correctly, and to contact the IPEDS Help Desk if you have ANY questions about what you need to report.

The IC data in Section 1(Header Information) affect other survey components in the following ways:

The Educational Offerings question verifies your institution's inclusion in IPEDS.

The Control and Levels page is key to all survey components, especially to Finance (F) and Graduation Rates (GR). Additionally, this is important information

for students, impacts many federal reports, and is used in placing institutions in appropriate net price groupings.

Calendar system selection impacts student charges data reported in Cost (CST), Fall Enrollment (EF), GR, and Student Financial Aid (SFA) data.

Enrollment levels impact student charges in CST and enrollment categories in the EF survey component.

The Open Admission question determines whether the Admissions component will be required in the Winter collection.

The Academic Libraries expenses question determines whether the Academic Libraries component will be required in the Spring collection. This question is

asked of degree-granting institutions only.

The operations question for new institutions determines reporting of 12-month Enrollment (E12).

Data Reporting Reminder:

Report data to accurately reflect the time period corresponding with the IPEDS survey component, even if such reporting is seemingly inconsistent with prior-

year reporting.

Changes to reporting:

The following changes have been made for 2024-25 collection:

The IC survey includes elements of the IC Header and the IC survey components. IC no longer includes Cost data; those data are collected in the new Cost

survey component.

Resources:

To download survey materials package for this component: Survey Materials



If you have questions about completing the survey, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 1/30

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 2/30 Section 1 – Header Information





Section 1- Header Information: Part A - Educational Offerings

1. Which of the following types of for-credit instruction/programs are offered by your institution? [Check one or more]

If your institution does not offer occupational or academic programs, you are not expected to complete this or any other IPEDS survey component.

Occupational, may lead to a certificate, degree, or other recognized postsecondary credential

Academic, may lead to a certificate, degree, or diploma

Recreational or avocational (leisure) programs

Adult basic or developmental instruction or high school equivalency

Secondary (high school)

Developmental



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 3/30 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Mission Statement

1. Provide the institution's mission statement or a web address (URL) where the mission statement can be found. Typed statements are limited to 2,000 characters or less. The mission statement will be available to the public on College Navigator.



Mission Statement URL: http://



Mission Statement:



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 4/30 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Organization - Control and Levels

2. What is your institutional control or affiliation?

Be sure to select the correct control for your institution. Errors on this question have an impact throughout the IPEDS surveys, in federal reporting, in net price groupings, and on your institutions' appearance to students. If you reported incorrectly in a previous year, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568 to correct the error.

Public - Select primary and/or secondary controls below

Primary control Secondary control (if applicable)

Select One Select One

Private for-profit

Private not-for-profit independent (no religious affiliation)

Private not-for-profit religious affiliation - Select affiliation below

Select One



3. What award levels are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

Award Levels reported should be completed based on the current year. When reporting award levels for subbaccalaureate certificates (levels 1a, 1b, 2, and 4), determine program length by the number of credit or clock hours.

The "Other" award level should not be used unless your program truly does not fit any of the other award levels. We expect very few institutions to fit the "Other" category.

Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbaccalaureate undergraduate programs. Check the applicable award level 1a, 1b, 2, or 4, depending on the length of the Teacher Preparation program.

Award Level

BELOW THE BACCALAUREATE:

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- less than 300 clock hours, or

1a

- less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- less than 13 quarter credit hours

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 300-899 clock hours, or

1b

- 9-29 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 13-44 quarter credit hours

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or

2

- at least 30 but less than 60 semester or trimester credit hours, or

- at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours

3 Associate's degree

Postsecondary award, certificate, or diploma of

- 1,800 or more clock hours, or

4

- 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or

- 90 or more quarter credit hours

BACCALAUREATE AND ABOVE:

5 Bachelor's degree or equivalent

6 Postbaccalaureate certificate

7 Master's degree

8 Post-master's certificate

17 Doctor's degree - research/scholarship

18 Doctor's degree - professional practice

19 Doctor's degree - other

12 Other (please specify in context box below)



Yes, I confirm that I reviewed the award levels offered by my institution above.

You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 5/30

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 6/30 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Organization - Calendar System



Your response to the next question determines how your institution reports Institutional CST student charges data in the fall, Student Financial Aid data in the fall/winter, and Graduation Rates data in the winter.

If the calendar system differs from prior year or requires a change, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.



4. What is the predominant calendar system at the institution? [Choose one]

Academic Year Reporting Method (Standard academic terms)

Selecting one of the following calendar types determines that your institution will provide Student Financial Aid and Graduation Rates data based on a FALL

COHORT, and student charges data for a full ACADEMIC YEAR.

Semester

Quarter

Trimester

4-1-4 or similar plan

Program Reporting Method (Other calendar system)

Selecting one of the following calendar types determines that your institution will provide Student Financial Aid and Graduation Rates data based on a FULL-YEAR

COHORT, and student charges data by PROGRAM.

Differs by program

Continuous basis (every 2 weeks, monthly, or other period)

Hybrid/Mixed Reporting Method (Standard academic terms, other academic calendar)

Selecting the hybrid calendar type determines that your institution will provide Graduation Rates data based on a FULL-YEAR COHORT, student charges data for a

full ACADEMIC YEAR, and Student Financial Aid data for students enrolling between August 1 and October 31.

Hybrid (Other academic calendar)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 7/30 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Organization - Student Enrollment





5. Does your institution enroll any of the following types of students?


Include all levels offered by your institution, even if there are no students currently enrolled at that level. Responses to these questions determine which screens will be generated for reporting academic year tuition charges, and for reporting Fall Enrollment during the Spring collection. Additionally, checking Yes for full-time, first-time, degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students determines that your institution must report cost of attendance data (on the Cost I component) and Student Financial Aid data for these students.

Full-time Part-time

Students in academic or occupational programs No Yes No Yes

First-time students No Yes No Yes



7. For academic year 2021-22, did your institution have any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students enrolled in programs at the baccalaureate level or below?

If you answer Yes to this question, you will be required to provide Graduation Rates data for the 2021-22 cohort in the winter collection. If you answer No to this question, indicate the reason you are not required to report Graduation Rates for the cohort year requested. If you reported any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students on the 2021-22 Fall Enrollment survey, the data will be preloaded below.

No

This institution did not enroll full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students.

This institution was not in operation in 2021-22.

Yes



Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students from the 2021-22 Fall Enrollment survey (GR Cohort)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 8/30 Section 1- Header Information: Part B - Multi-institution or Multi-campus Organization





8. Multi-institution or multi-campus organization


Is the institution part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution? Do NOT indicate a religious affiliation here; that information is collected separately.

If you need assistance, contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 1-877-225-2568. You will not be able to lock your submission if this question is blank.

No, this institution IS NOT a part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution.

Yes, this institution IS a part of a multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution.

If yes, select the name of the multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution after clicking on 'Select System' below.

Select System



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 9/30 Section 2 – Institutional Characteristics





Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part A - Services and Programs for Servicemembers and Veterans


1. Which of the following are available to veterans, military servicemembers, or their families?

Yellow Ribbon Program (officially known as Post-9/11 GI Bill, Yellow Ribbon Program)

Credit for military training

Dedicated point of contact for support services for veterans, military servicemembers, and their families

Recognized student veteran organization

Member of Department of Defense Voluntary Educational Partnership Memorandum of Understanding

None of the above

You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 10/30 Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services - Special Learning Opportunities





1. Does your institution accept any of the following? [Check all that apply]


Credit for life experiences

Advanced placement (AP) credits

None of the above

2. What types of special learning opportunities are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]

ROTC

Army

Navy

Marine option

Air Force

Study abroad

Weekend/evening courses or programs

Undergraduate research (co-curricula)

Teacher certification (for the elementary, middle school/junior high, or secondary level)

Do not include certifications to teach at the postsecondary level.

Students can complete their preparation in certain areas of specialization

Students must complete their preparation at another institution for certain areas of specialization

This institution is approved by the state for the initial certification or licensure of teachers

Comprehensive transition and postsecondary program for students with intellectual disabilities

None of the above



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 11/30 Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services: Other Student Services





4. Which of the following selected student services are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply]


Academic/career counseling services

Employment services for current students

Placement services for program completers

On-campus dependent care

None of the above

5. Which of the following academic library resources or services does your institution provide? [Check all that apply]

Physical facilities

An organized collection of printed materials

Access to Digital/electronic resources (databases, e-books, e-media, and e-serials)

A staff trained to provide and interpret library materials

Established library hours

Access to library collections shared with other institutions

None of the above

You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 12/30 [Student level(s) is applicable based on your institution]

Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services - Distance Education

7. Please indicate at what level(s) your institution does or does not offer distance education courses and/or distance education programs. Check all that apply.

Distance education courses Distance education programs Does not offer Distance Education

Undergraduate level

Graduate level



8. Are all the programs at your institution offered exclusively via distance education programs?

No

Yes



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 13/30 [Applicable to institutions have undergraduate level only]

Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Student Services: Disability Services

9. Please indicate the percentage of all undergraduate students enrolled during Fall 2023 who were formally registered as students with disabilities with the institution's office of disability services (or the equivalent office).

3 percent or less

More than 3 percent: (enter up to 2 decimal places) %



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 14/30 Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part B - Noncredit Education Offered

10. Which of the following categories of noncredit education are offered by your institution? [Check all that apply] Note: Categories below may not be mutually exclusive.

Workforce Education

Contract Training/Customized Training

Developmental Education

Recreational/Avocational/Leisure/Personal Enrichment

Adult Basic Education

Adult High School Diploma or Equivalent

English as a Second Language

Continuing Professional Education

None of the above



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 15/30 [Applicable to degree-granting institutions only]

Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics: Part C - Athletic Association

1. Is this institution a member of a national athletic association?

No

Yes - Check all that apply

National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)

National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA)

National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA)

United States Collegiate Athletic Association (USCAA)

National Christian College Athletic Association (NCCAA)

Other



2. If this institution is a member of the NCAA or NAIA, specify the conference FOR EACH SPORT using the pull-down menu.

Sport NCAA or NAIA member Conference

Football No Yes-Specify Select One

Basketball No Yes-Specify Select One

Baseball No Yes-Specify Select One

Cross country and/or track No Yes-Specify Select One



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 16/30 Section 3 – Other Survey Component Screening Questions



[Applicable to institutions have first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate level only]

Section 3 - Other Survey Component Questions: Part A - Open Admission

1. Does your institution have an open admission policy for all or most entering first-time students? If the only requirement for admission is a high school diploma or GED/other equivalent, your institution is still considered open admission. Institutions that require only an Ability to Benefit or similar test beyond the diploma/equivalent, and only reject a very small number of students based on the test, are also considered open admission.

If your institution does not have an open admission policy, you will be required to report Admissions component on your admissions procedures and admissions

yield.

No

Yes



You may use the box below to provide additional context for the data you have reported above. Context notes will be posted on the College Navigator website.

Therefore, you should write all context notes using proper grammar (e.g., complete sentences with punctuation) and common language that can be easily understood by students and parents (e.g., spell out acronyms).



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 17/30 [Applicable to degree-granting institutions only]

Section 3 - Other Survey Component Questions: Part B - Library Access and Expenses

1. Does your institution have access to a library collection?

No

Yes (receives Academic Libraries component)



2. Were your annual total library expenses for Fiscal Year 2024 greater than zero?

No

Yes (receives Academic Libraries component)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 18/30 [Applicable to new institutions only]

Section 3 - Other Survey Component Questions: Part C - Levels of Enrollment Offered

1. Was your institution in operation during the academic year 2023-24?

If you answer Yes to this question, you will be able to specify the levels of enrollment offered at your institution during 2023-24 and to report 12-month enrollment during the fall collection.

No

Yes. Please specify the levels of enrollment offered during 2023-24.

Undergraduate

Full time Part time

Graduate (not including doctor's-professional practice)



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 19/30 Summary

Institutional Characteristics Component Summary

The purpose of this summary is to provide you an opportunity to view some of the data that, when accepted through the IPEDS quality control process, will appear

on the College Navigator website and/or your institution’s Data Feedback Report (DFR). In addition, all data reported in IPEDS survey components become publicly

available through the IPEDS Use the Data and appear as aggregated statistics in various Department of Education reports. College Navigator is updated

approximately three months after the data collection period closes and DFRs will be available through the IPEDS Use the Data and sent to your institution’s CEO at the end of 2025.

Please review your data for accuracy. If you have questions about the data displayed below or after reviewing the data reported on the survey screens, please

contact the IPEDS Help Desk at: 1-877-225-2568 or ipedshelp@rti.org.



Section 1 - Header Information

Educational Offerings

Mission Statement

Control

Award Levels Offered

Reporter Type

Calendar System

Levels of Enrollment Offered

System



Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics

Services and Programs for Servicemembers and Veterans

Student Services

Credit Accepted

Special Learning Opportunities

Years of college-level work required for BS/BA program entry

Other Student Services

Academic library resources

Distance Education

DE program level(s)

DE course level(s)

Noncredit Education

Disability Services



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 20/30 Institutional Characteristics Full Instructions for private 2-yr degree-granting institutions



Purpose of Institutional Characteristics Survey

Changes in Reporting

General instructions

Reporting Period for Institutional Characteristics Header

Context boxes

Coverage

Where to Get Help

Where the Data Will Appear

Reporting Directions

Section 1 - Header

Part A - Educational Offerings

Part B - Organization

Mission Statement

Control and Award Levels

Calendar System

Enrollment Levels and GR cohort question

Multi-institution or Multi-campus Organization

Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics

Part A - Services and Programs for Servicemembers and Veterans

Part B - Student Services

Part C - Athletic Association

Section 3 - Other Survey Screening Questions

Part A - Open Admission

Part B - Library Expenses

Part C - Levels of Enrollment

Section 4 - Branch Campus

[Applicable for institutions that report IC data for branch campuses]



Purpose of Survey

Welcome to the Institutional Characteristics (IC) survey component. This survey component collects directory information, including data that are key to reporting throughout the IPEDS data collection and must be completed and locked before any other survey can be started. Any errors in the IC survey can lead to further errors in the data reporting process, so please be very careful in reporting these data correctly and contact the IPEDS Help Desk (877.225.2568) if you have any questions. This survey component also collects basic institutional information including student services and athletic association.





Changes in reporting

The following changes have been made for 2024-25:

The IC survey includes elements of the IC Header and the IC survey components. IC no longer includes Cost data; those data are collected in the new Cost survey component.





General instructions



Reporting period covered

Institutional Characteristics (IC) covers data for the current year with two exceptions.

Cohort data in Section 1, B7 refer to a past cohort and are used to set the Graduation Rates component (GR). For new institutions, the question about prior year operation refers to the prior academic year and is used to determine the applicability of the 12-Month Enrollment (E12) survey component.





Context Boxes

Context boxes are provided to allow institutions to provide more information regarding survey component items. Note that some context boxes are posted on

the College Navigator Website, which is the college search tool offered by NCES. NCES will review entries in these context boxes for applicability and

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 21/30

appropriateness before posting them on the College Navigator Website, however, institutions should check grammar and spelling of their entries. Inappropriate

or repetitive contexts will be deleted.





Coverage

Carefully read each question in the Institutional Characteristics (IC) survey to ensure that you are reporting data for the appropriate students. The student groups for which data are collected vary throughout the IC-H survey (e.g., undergraduate and graduate). In general, for each group, ensure that the guidelines below are met.



A. Who to Include (for all questions except for Section 3, Part D – Noncredit education)

Students enrolled in courses creditable toward a diploma, certificate, degree, or other recognized postsecondary credential, including those enrolled in

off-campus centers

High school students taking college courses for credit

Full-time students taking developmental courses IF the student is considered degree-seeking for the purpose of student financial aid determination

Students from overseas enrolled in U.S. courses for credit (e.g., online students, for all other than noncredit education question)

Students who are incarcerated (e.g., postsecondary prison education program)

Graduate students enrolled for thesis credits, even when zero credits are awarded, as these students are still enrolled and seeking their degree

B. Who NOT to Include (for all questions except for Section 2, Part B – Noncredit education)

Students enrolled exclusively in courses not creditable toward a recognized postsecondary credential

Students enrolled only in ESL programs (programs comprised exclusively of ESL courses)

Students enrolled exclusively in Continuing Education Units (CEUs; for all other than noncredit education question)

Students exclusively auditing classes

Residents or interns in Doctor's - professional practice (previously first-professional), since they have already received their Doctor's degree

Students studying abroad (e.g., at a foreign university) if their enrollment at the "home" institution is only an administrative record and the fee is nominal

Students enrolled in any branch campus located in a foreign country





Where to Get Help with Reporting

IPEDS Help Desk

Phone: (877) 225-2568

E-mail: ipedshelp@rti.org

Web Tutorials

You can consult the IPEDS Website's Trainings & Outreach page which contains several tutorials on IPEDS data collection, a self-paced overview of IPEDS tools,

and other valuable resources.

IPEDS Resource Page

The IPEDS Website's Reporting Tools page contains frequently asked questions, a link to data tip sheets, tutorials, taxonomies, information centers (e.g.,

academic libraries, average net price, human resources, race/ethnicity, etc.), and other valuable information.





Where the Reported Data Will Appear

Data collected through IPEDS will be accessible at the institution and aggregate levels.

At the institution-level, data will appear in the:

College Navigator Website

IPEDS data center

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

College Affordability and Transparency Center Website

At the aggregate-level, data will appear in:

IPEDS First Looks

IPEDS Table Library

IPEDS Data Feedback Reports

The Digest of Education Statistics

The Condition of Education





Reporting Directions



Section 1 - Header Information



Part A - Educational Offerings

Responses on this screen verify inclusion of the institution on the NCES/IPEDS list of institutions and agencies that provide all types of postsecondary

education. Postsecondary education is defined as the provision of a formal instructional program whose curriculum is designed primarily for students beyond

the compulsory age for high school. This includes programs whose purpose is occupational, academic, or continuing professional education but excludes

avocational and adult basic education programs.

If you select only avocational and/or adult basic education programs, you will be contacted by IPEDS to confirm your exemption from IPEDS reporting.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 22/30

Part B – Organization



Mission Statement

Provide your institution's mission statement or a web address (please select http:// or https://) where the statement can be found. Typed statements are

limited to 2,000 characters. The mission statement will be available to the public on College Navigator.



Institutional Control or Affiliation

Indicate the appropriate control or affiliation under which the institution operates. If the institution has a religious affiliation, select the denomination from

the list provided in the drop-down box. Public institutions must designate a primary control; identification of a secondary control is optional. If control of the

institution differs from the prior year or requires a change, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.

Correct reporting of control or affiliation is KEY to IPEDS reporting. Errors in reporting control or affiliation cause you to receive incorrect survey forms,

misrepresent your institution to the public on College Navigator and other search tools that use IPEDS data, and place your institution in incorrect groups in

IPEDS publications and on the College Affordability and Transparency Lists. If you do not know the control or affiliation of your institution, please call the

Help Desk.



Award Levels

Check applicable award levels for all credit programs offered at the institution. Award levels are identified based on duration and/or awards.

Report using the number of CLOCK or CREDIT hours, as is appropriate to your calendar system (e.g., semester or quarter). Award levels 1a and b, 2, and 4 differ by length of programs and refer to completions below the baccalaureate degree. Use the IPEDS designations, not institutionally defined designations, to describe these levels.

Award levels 3, 5, 7, 17, 18, and 19 indicate degree levels for which the institution is authorized to make recognized postsecondary credentials. Award levels 6 and 8 indicate certificate levels.

If you cannot classify an award within the award levels indicated on the screen, check award level 12 ("Other") and specify or describe the award in the context box. Because there are few programs that fall under "Other" please contact the Help Desk if you are considering selecting Level 12.

NOTE: Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbaccalaureate

undergraduate programs. Check the applicable award level 1a or b, 2, or 4, depending on the length of the Teacher Preparation program.



Calendar System

Indicate the predominant calendar system under which the institution operates. If programs are offered on more than one calendar, select the system

under which most programs are offered. If there is no predominant calendar system at your institution, select the option that best characterizes your

institution.

If your calendar system differs from the prior year or requires a change, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.

Note: Calendar system selection determines reporting in many other IPEDS components. Be sure that the calendar system you select accurately represents

your institution. Contact the IPEDS Help Desk if you are not sure which calendar system to select.

Standard academic terms (semesters, quarters, trimesters, 4-1-4)

Use a Fall cohort for Graduation Rates.

Report tuition and fees and cost information based on a full academic year. Report Fall Enrollment using students enrolled as of October 15, or the official Fall reporting date used by the institution. For Student Financial Aid (aid awarded), report students enrolled in the prior 12-month period of July 1 - June 30, and the aid for an award year.

Program-by-program or continuous enrollment basis

Use a full-year cohort for Graduation Rates.

Report tuition and fees and books and supplies information by program for the entire length of the program. For living expenses, report costs for 1 month. Note: Living expenses are only applicable to institutions with full-time, first-time students and are reported with the largest program.

Report Fall Enrollment using students enrolled in the institution at any time between August 1 and October 31. For Student Financial Aid (aid awarded), report students enrolled in the prior 12-month period of July 1 - June 30, and the aid for an award year.

Hybrid academic calendar (If you are considering selecting the "Other academic calendar" option, please contact the Help Desk at 877.225.2568 so they can confirm the appropriateness of this calendar system for your institution.)

Use a full-year cohort for Graduation Rates.

Report Fall Enrollment using students enrolled in the institution at any time between August 1 and October 31. Report tuition and fees and cost information based on a full academic year. For Student Financial Aid (aid awarded), report students enrolled in the prior 12-month period of July 1 - June 30, and the aid for an award year.



Student Enrollment

Enrollment of full- and part-time students

Indicate whether your institution enrolls any full-time or part-time students at the levels listed. Include all levels offered, even if there are not any students

currently enrolled at that level.

Responses to those categories will determine the screens generated for reporting academic year tuition charges in the Cost(CST) survey during the Fall

collection and enrollment data in the Fall Enrollment survey during the Spring collection.

Make sure to check "Yes" for full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students if applicable, as this determines that your institution will report cost information on CST screens during the Fall/Winter collections.

GR cohort question

Indicate if your institution had any full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students enrolled in the academic year indicated on the screen. If you check Yes, you must report Graduation Rates data in the Winter collection.

https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 23/30

Multi-institution or Multi-campus Organization



If applicable, select from the provided list the multi-institution or multi-campus organization that owns, governs, or controls the institution. If you do not

see your multi-institution or multi-organization listed, please contact the IPEDS Help Desk.

A multi-institution or multi-campus organization includes organizations with two or more institutions or campuses.

Non-postsecondary education agencies that govern or control institutions include, but are not limited to, public school districts, art organizations, hospitals

and other medical/health organizations.

Do not include:

coordinating systems single institution owner

single institution corporate name

single institution governing board consortia

associations

religious affiliation (requested in control question)





Section 2 - Institutional Characteristics



Part A - Services and Programs for Military Servicemembers and Veterans

Indicate which of the following are offered to veterans, military servicemembers, or their families.

For the Post-9/11 Bill Yellow Ribbon Program, please choose this only if the Yellow Ribbon Program is available at your institution.



Part B - Student Services



Special learning opportunities

Special credit

Indicate if your institution accepts credit earned prior to admission through any of the sources listed.

Special learning opportunities

Indicate if the listed special learning opportunities are offered by your institution. Teacher certification refers to pre-K through 12; if the institution only

provides certification for some levels (e.g., elementary only and not secondary), be sure to indicate that only certain levels are offered.



Student services

Other Student services

Indicate which of the listed services are offered by your institution.

Library

Indicate whether your institution offers any of the listed resources or services. If none of the listed resources/services apply, select "None of the above".



Distance education

Indicate the levels at which your institution offers distance education courses and/or distance education programs. Check all options that apply.

Distance education uses one or more technologies to deliver instruction to students who are separated from the instructor and to support regular and

substantive interaction between the students and the instructor synchronously or asynchronously.

Requirements for coming to campus for orientation, testing, or academic support services do not exclude a course from being classified as distance

education. Technologies used for instruction may include the following: Internet; one-way and two-way transmissions through open broadcasts, closed

circuit, cable, microwave, broadband lines, fiber optics, satellite or wireless communication devices; audio conferencing; and video cassette, DVDs, and CD-

ROMs, if the cassette, DVDs, and CD-ROMs are used in a course in conjunction with the technologies listed above.

Distance education course

A course in which the instructional content is delivered exclusively via distance education.

Distance education program

A program for which all the required coursework for program completion is able to be completed via distance education courses.

Distance education levels

Indicate whether you offer distance education courses and/or programs at the undergraduate level and/or graduate level. Please check all that apply. If you

do not offer distance education courses and/or programs, please select “Does not offer distance education" at the undergraduate and/or graduate level.

Exclusively distance education programs

Indicate whether or not ALL programs offered by your institution are delivered exclusively via distance education, meaning all the required coursework for

program completion is able to be completed via distance education courses.



Disabilities

Please indicate the percentage of all undergraduate students enrolled during the time period indicated who were formally registered as students with

disabilities with the institution's office of disability services (or the equivalent office). This may include students with physical or learning disabilities, as well

as other types of disabilities. If greater than 3% of students are registered as having a disability, you will need to indicate a percentage (up to 2 decimal

places).

Please use the context box on the page to provide information, such as the webpage for your disability services website.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 24/30

Noncredit Education

Indicate whether your institution offers any of the below types of noncredit education. Noncredit education is defined as “Courses or activities carrying no

academic credit applicable toward a degree, diploma, certificate, or other recognized postsecondary credential at the institution or within the postsecondary

educational system.” Check all that apply; categories may not be mutually exclusive. If your institution does not offer noncredit education, please select

‘None of the above’.



Part C - Athletic Association

[Applicable to degree-granting institutions only]

Indicate if the institution is a member of a national athletic association.

For institutions belonging to NCAA or NAIA, select the conference (by sport) from the pull-down menu provided.





Section 3 - Other Survey Screening Questions



Part A – Open admission policy

Check Yes if your institution has an open admission policy.

If your institution requires only a high school diploma/equivalent and/or Ability to Benefit (or similar) test, and few students are not admitted based on the

test, your institution is still considered open admission. For example, if you have students take the ATB test and allow 98% of those students to enroll, you

are likely open admission. The 2% that were not admitted had unusual circumstances that kept them from being admitted.

Note: IPEDS does not have a set percentage to determine open admission. Please review your institution's admission policy or talk to someone in the

admissions office if you are not sure whether your institution is open admission, or contact the IPEDS Help Desk at 877.225.2568.



Part B – Library Access and Expenses

[Applicable to degree-granting institutions only]

Indicate whether the institution has access to a library collection and/or the annual total library expenses at your institution were greater than zero for

Fiscal Year 2024. Fiscal Year 2024 is defined as the most recent 12-month period that corresponds to your institution's fiscal year that ends before October

1, 2024.

A library collection is defined as “comprising documents held locally and remote resources for which permanent or temporary access rights have been

acquired. Access rights may be acquired by the library itself, by a consortium and/or through external funding. Acquisition is to be understood as securing

access rights and including it in the library catalog, other library databases or discovery systems.”

Expenses include funds expended by the library (regardless of when received) from its regular budget and from all other known sources; e.g., research

grants, special projects, gifts and endowments, and fees for services. Those libraries in consortia or those that share all their resources with another

institution, please report whether the total annual library expenses at YOUR institution were greater than zero in Fiscal Year 2024.

If the institution does not have access to a library collection and the institution's library expenses are equal to 0, you will not be asked to complete the

Academic Libraries (AL) component in the Spring.



Part C – Levels of Enrollment

New institutions should indicate whether their institution was in operation during the prior academic year. If the response is "Yes", they should also indicate

the levels that were offered.



Section 4- Branch campus

For branch campuses, refer to the instructions on the appropriate screen.





https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 25/30 Glossary

Term Definition

The 4-1-4 calendar usually consists of 4 courses taken for 4 months, 1 course taken for 1 month, and 4 courses taken for 4 4-1-4 (calendar system)

months. There may be an additional summer session.

The period of time generally extending from September to June; usually equated to 2 semesters or trimesters, 3 quarters, or the Academic year

period covered by a 4-1-4 calendar system.

Courses designed primarily for students 16 years of age and older to improve basic skills in reading, writing, and arithmetic.

Adult basic education These courses are not intended to be part of a program leading to a high school credential, nor are they part of any academic,

occupational, or vocational program at the postsecondary level.

Associate's degree An award that normally requires at least 2 but less than 4 years of full-time equivalent college work.

Instructional programs in personal interest and leisure categories whose expressed intent is not to produce postsecondary Avocational programs

credits, nor to lead to a recognized postsecondary credential or an academic degree, nor result in occupationally specific skills.

An award (baccalaureate or equivalent degree, as determined by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education) that normally

requires at least 4 but not more than 5 years of full-time equivalent college-level work. This includes all bachelor's degrees

Bachelor's degree conferred in a 5-year cooperative (work-study) program. A cooperative plan provides for alternate class attendance and

employment in business, industry, or government; thus, it allows students to combine actual work experience with their college

studies. Also includes bachelor's degrees in which the normal 4 years of work are completed in 3 years.

Calendar system The method by which an institution structures most of its courses for the academic year.

A recognized postsecondary credential that is conferred upon the satisfactory completion of a postsecondary education Certificate

program.

The principal administrative official, or chief executive officer, responsible for the direction of all affairs and operations of a

Chief administrator postsecondary education institution, or that component of an organization that conducts postsecondary education, but who

may report to a governing board.

Child institution An institution that has some or all of its data reported by another institution, known as the parent institution.

A period of time consisting of (1) A 50- to 60-minute class, lecture, or recitation in a 60-minute period; (2) A 50- to 60-minute Clock hour faculty-supervised laboratory, shop training, or internship in a 60-minute period; or (3) Sixty minutes of preparation in a

correspondence course.

Cohort A specific group of students established for tracking purposes.

Contact hour (old definition) A unit of measure that represents an hour of scheduled instruction given to students. Also referred to as clock hour.

Continuing professional Programs and courses designed specifically for individuals who have completed a degree in a professional field (such as law, education medicine, dentistry, education, or social work) to obtain additional training in their particular field of study.

A calendar system classification that is used by institutions that allow students to enroll/start classes at any time during the Continuous basis year. For example, a cosmetology school or a word processing school might allow students to enroll and begin studies at

various times, with no requirement that classes begin on a certain date.

A classification of whether an institution is operated by publicly elected or appointed officials (public control) or by privately Control (of institution)

elected or appointed officials and derives its major source of funds from private sources (private control).

Counseling service Activities designed to assist students in making plans and decisions related to their education, career, or personal development.

Credit earned by students for what they have learned through independent study, noncredit adult courses, work experience, Credit for life experiences portfolio demonstration, previous licensure or certification, or completion of other learning opportunities (military, government,

or professional). Credit may also be awarded through a credit by examination program.

Postsecondary credit granted by institutions to military servicemen or veterans for experiences and training gained while in the Credit for Military Training

service.

A unit of measure representing the equivalent of an hour (50 minutes) of instruction per week over the entire term. It is applied

Credit hour toward the total number of credit hours needed for completing the requirements of a degree, diploma, certificate, or other

recognized postsecondary credential.

The Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number is a 9-digit number assigned by the Dun & Bradstreet Information Data Universal Numbering

Corporation to any entity providing products, goods, or services. The DUNS number was the official identifier for doing business System (DUNS) number

with the U.S. Government until April 4, 2022.

A student service designed to provide appropriate care and protection of infants, preschool, and school-age children so their Day care service

parents can participate in postsecondary education programs.

An award conferred by a college, university, or other postsecondary education institution as official recognition for the Degree

successful completion of a program of studies.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 26/30

Department of Defense

A voluntary program that functions to expand and improve postsecondary opportunities for servicemembers worldwide. It is

Voluntary Education Program

funded by the Department of Defense through a contract with the American Association of State Colleges and Universities

Memorandum of

(AASCU).

Understanding

Courses or programs designed to develop the reading, writing, and/or math skills of students who are determined–typically by a

Developmental education

standardized test–to be academically underprepared for college-level, credit-bearing courses.

Instructional activities designed for students deficient in the general competencies necessary for a regular postsecondary

Developmental services

curriculum and educational setting.

A calendar system classification that is used by institutions that have occupational/vocational programs of varying lengths.

Differs by program (calendar

These schools may enroll students at specific times depending on the program desired. For example, a school might offer a 2-

system)

month program in January, March, May, September, and November; and a 3-month program in January, April, and October.

Programs designed to provide reasonable academic accommodations and support services to empower students who have

Disability services disabilities to competitively pursue postsecondary education. May also include assistance to campus departments in providing

access to services and programs in the most integrated setting possible.

Education that uses one or more technologies to deliver instruction to students who are separated from the instructor and to support regular and substantive interaction between the students and the instructor synchronously or asynchronously.

Technologies used for instruction may include the following: Internet; one-way and two-way transmissions through open

Distance education

broadcasts, closed circuit, cable, microwave, broadband lines, fiber optics, satellite or wireless communication devices; audio conferencing; and video cassette, DVDs, and CD-ROMs, if the cassette, DVDs, and CD-ROMs are used in a course in conjunction with the technologies listed above.



A course in which the instructional content is delivered exclusively via distance education. Requirements for coming to campus

Distance education course

for orientation, testing, or academic support services do not exclude a course from being classified as distance education.

A program for which all the required coursework for program completion is able to be completed via distance education

Distance education program

courses.

A doctor's degree that does not meet the definition of a doctor's degree - research/scholarship or a doctor's degree -

Doctor's degree-other

professional practice.

A doctor's degree that is conferred upon completion of a program providing the knowledge and skills for the recognition, credential, or license required for professional practice. The degree is awarded after a period of study such that the total time to

Doctor's degree-professional the degree, including both pre-professional and professional preparation, equals at least six full-time equivalent academic years.

practice Some of these degrees were formerly classified as first-professional and may include: Chiropractic (D.C. or D.C.M.); Dentistry

(D.D.S. or D.M.D.); Law (J.D.); Medicine (M.D.); Optometry (O.D.); Osteopathic Medicine (D.O); Pharmacy (Pharm.D.); Podiatry (D.P.M., Pod.D., D.P.); or, Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.), and others, as designated by the awarding institution.

A Ph.D. or other doctor's degree that requires advanced work beyond the master's level, including the preparation and defense of

Doctor's degree- a dissertation based on original research, or the planning and execution of an original project demonstrating substantial artistic

research/scholarship or scholarly achievement. Some examples of this type of degree may include Ed.D., D.M.A., D.B.A., D.Sc., D.A., or D.M, and others,

as designated by the awarding institution.

Refers to students who enroll in college courses offered by an institution of higher education while enrolled in high school or seeking a recognized equivalent. Student performance is recorded on a college transcript and postsecondary credit is awarded for a passing grade in the course.

- Includes: All postsecondary courses, independent of course delivery mode, course location, course instructor, whether

Dual enrollment

secondary credit is also offered, and whether the student enrolls through a formal state/local program or enrolls outside a formal state/local program.

- Excludes: Credit-by-exam models such as Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate in which the student is not

enrolled in a postsecondary institution.

Educational programs offered by postsecondary institutions that are occupational, academic, or continuing professional that

Educational offerings qualify as postsecondary education programs OR recreational or avocational, adult basic, developmental instruction, high

school equivalency, or high school programs that are not deemed postsecondary.

Employment services for Activities intended to assist students in obtaining part-time employment as a means of defraying part of the cost of their

current students education.

The group of students entering in the fall term established for tracking purposes. For the Graduation Rates component, this

Fall cohort includes all students who enter an institution as full-time, first-time degree or certificate-seeking undergraduate students during

the fall term of a given year.

A student who has no prior postsecondary experience (except as noted below) attending any institution for the first time at the

First-time student undergraduate level. This includes students enrolled in academic or occupational programs. It also includes students enrolled

(undergraduate) in the fall term who attended college for the first time in the prior summer session, and students who entered with advanced

standing (college credits or recognized postsecondary credential earned before graduation from high school).

Undergraduate: A student enrolled for 12 or more semester credits, or 12 or more quarter credits, or 24 or more clock hours a week each term. Graduate: A student enrolled for 9 or more semester credits, or 9 or more quarter credits, or a student involved

Full-time student

in thesis or dissertation preparation that is considered full-time by the institution. Doctor's degree - Professional practice - full-time as defined by the institution.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 27/30

This is a group of students entering at any time during the 12-month period for tracking and reporting. For Graduation Rate (GR),

a full-year cohort is from September 1 through August 31 and is used primarily by institutions that offer occupational programs

Full-year cohort of varying lengths. Students must be full-time and first-time to be considered in the cohort. For Outcome Measures (OM)

component, all degree-granting institutions report on a full-year cohort from July 1 through June 30. Students are reported once

in one of the four OM cohorts: first-time, full-time; first-time, part-time: non-first-time, full-time; or non-first-time, part-time.

An entity that ensures on behalf of the public the performance of an institution or a group of institutions. Responsibilities of the Governing board board may include appointing, supporting, and monitoring the president of the institution; reviewing educational and public

service programs; insisting on strategic planning; and, ensuring good management and adequate resources.

A student who holds a bachelor's degree or above and is taking courses at the postbaccalaureate level. These students may or Graduate student

may not be enrolled in graduate programs.

A classification that indicates whether a private not-for-profit institution is associated with a religious group or denomination. Institutional affiliation

Private not-for-profit institutions may be either independent or religiously affiliated.

The Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), conducted by the NCES, began in 1986 and involves annual

institution-level data collections. All postsecondary institutions that have a Program Participation Agreement with the Office of Integrated Postsecondary Postsecondary Education (OPE), U.S. Department of Education (throughout IPEDS referred to as "Title IV") are required to report

Education Data System data using a web-based data collection system. IPEDS currently consists of the following components: Institutional

(IPEDS) Characteristics (IC); 12-month Enrollment (E12);Completions (C); Admissions (ADM); Student Financial Aid (SFA); Human

Resources (HR) composed of Employees by Assigned Position, Fall Staff, and Salaries; Fall Enrollment (EF); Graduation Rates

(GR); Outcome Measures (OM); Finance (F); and Academic Libraries (AL).

A postsecondary institution that offers programs of less than 2-years duration below the baccalaureate level. Includes Less than 2-year institution

occupational and vocational schools with programs that do not exceed 1800 clock hours .

Information collected in the Institutional Characteristics component which indicates all applicable levels for all credit programs

offered at an institution. Award levels are identified on the basis of recognition for their completion, duration, or a combination

thereof. Degree-designated award levels indicate those degree levels for which the institution is authorized to offer recognized Levels of offering

postsecondary credentials. Length of study is the equivalent of the number of full-time academic years. For example, at least 1

but less than 2 years refers to the number of credits or the course load that would normally be completed by a full-time student

attending within the stated time period.

An organized collection of printed, microform, and audiovisual materials which (a) is administered as one or more units, (b) is

located in one or more designated places, and (c) makes printed, microform, and audiovisual materials as well as necessary Library

equipment and services of a staff accessible to students and to faculty. Includes units meeting the above definition which are

part of a learning resource center.

Comprise of documents held locally and remote resources for which permanent or temporary access rights have been acquired. Library collections Access rights may be acquired by the library itself, by a consortium and/or through external funding. Acquisition is to be

understood as securing access rights and including it in the library catalog, other library databases or discovery systems.

Funds expended by the library (regardless of when received) from its regular budget and from all other sources; e.g., research Library expenses

grants, special projects, gifts and endowments, and fees for services.

An award that requires the successful completion of a program of study of at least the full-time equivalent of 1 but not more

than 2 academic years of work beyond the bachelor's degree.

Master's degree

Some of these degrees, such as those in Theology (M.Div., M.H.L./Rav) that were formerly classified as "first-professional", may

require more than two full-time equivalent academic years of work.

Noncredit contract training Courses or activities conducted for a specific client organization in a range of formats.

Noncredit customized training Contract training that is more specifically tailored to the client organization’s needs in terms of content or schedule.

Courses or activities carrying no academic credit applicable toward a degree, diploma, certificate, or other recognized Noncredit education

postsecondary credential at the institution or within the postsecondary educational system.

Courses or activities that provide technical skills for the workplace but carry no institutional credit applicable toward a degree, Noncredit workforce

diploma, certificate, or other formal award. These courses may result in industry-recognized certificates, but do not include ABE, education

ESL, developmental education, or recreational courses.

A program term that is less than 9 weeks or greater than 21 weeks. Some institutions call these semesters, quarters, and Nonstandard term

trimesters too even though they are nonstandard terms.

For Title IV purposes, a nonterm program is a clock-hour program, or a credit hour program that enrolls student continuously,

and has:

Courses that do not begin and end within a set period such as a term;

Nonterm program

Courses that overlap terms;

Self-paced and independent study courses that overlap terms; or

Sequential courses that do not begin and end within a term.

A program of study consisting of one or more courses, designed to provide the student with sufficient knowledge and skills to Occupational program

perform in a specific occupation.

Other academic calendar Category used to describe "non-traditional" calendar systems at 4-year and 2-year degree-granting institutions. These can system include schools that offer primarily on-line courses or "one course at a time."



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 28/30

Parent institution An institution that reports some or all data for another institution, known as the child institution.

Undergraduate: A student enrolled for either less than 12 semester or quarter credits, or less than 24 clock hours a week each

Part-time student

term. Graduate: A student enrolled for less than 9 semester or quarter credits.

Placement services for

Assistance for students in evaluating their career alternatives and in obtaining full-time employment upon leaving the institution.

program completers

A federal education benefit program for veterans, who served on active duty after September 10, 2001. This Department of Veteran Affairs benefit provides up to 36 months of education benefits at an approved institution for the following college costs:

Post 9/11 GI Bill tuition and fees, books and supplies, and housing. The tuition and fees payment, which is the cost for an in-state student

attending a public institution, is made directly to the postsecondary institution whereas payments for books and supplies and housing are sent directly to the student.

An award that requires completion of an organized program beyond the master's degree, but does not meet the requirements of

Post-master's certificate

academic degrees at the doctor's level.

An award that requires completion of an organized program of study beyond the bachelor's. It is designed for persons who have completed a baccalaureate degree, but does not meet the requirements of a master's degree.

Postbaccalaureate certificate

NOTE: Even though Teacher Preparation certificate programs may require a bachelor's degree for admission, they are considered subbacalaureate undergraduate programs, and students in these programs are undergraduate students.

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (1,800 An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

or more clock hours, 60 or degree) designed for completion in 1,800 or more clock hours, or 60 or more semester or trimester credit hours, or 90 or more

more semester or trimester quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, references to academic year equivalencies were removed from all levels of

credit hours, or 90 or more subbaccalaureate certificates.

quarter credit hours)

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (300- An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

899 clock hours, 9-29 degree) designed for completion in at least 300 but less than 900 clock hours, or in at least 9 but less 30 semester or trimester

semester or trimester credit credit hours, or in at least 13 but less than 45 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, this award level category was one of

hours, or 13-44 quarter credit two added options for reporting certificates of less than one academic year in length.

hours)

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (900- An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

1,800 clock hours, 30-60 degree) designed for completion in at least 900 but less than 1,800 clock hours, or in at least 30 but less than 60 semester or

semester or trimester credit trimester credit hours, or in at least 45 but less than 90 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, references to academic year

hours, or 45-90 quarter credit equivalencies were removed from all levels of subbaccalaureate certificates.

hours)

Postsecondary award,

certificate, or diploma (less An award that requires completion of an organized program of study at the postsecondary level (below the baccalaureate

than 300 clock hours, 9 degree) designed for completion in less than 300 clock hours, or in less than 9 semester or trimester credit hours, or less than

semester or trimester credit 13 quarter credit hours. Beginning in 2020-21, this award level category was one of two added options for reporting certificates

hours, or 13 quarter credit of less than one academic year in length.

hours)

Postsecondary education

An institution which has as its sole purpose or one of its primary missions, the provision of postsecondary education.

institution

A private institution in which the individual(s) or agency in control receives compensation other than wages, rent, or other

Private for-profit institution

expenses for the assumption of risk.

An educational institution controlled by a private individual(s) or by a nongovernmental agency, usually supported primarily by

Private institution other than public funds, and operated by other than publicly elected or appointed officials. These institutions may be either for-

profit or not-for-profit.

A private institution in which the individual(s) or agency in control receives no compensation, other than wages, rent, or other

Private not-for-profit

expenses for the assumption of risk. These include both independent not-for-profit schools and those affiliated with a religious

institution

organization.

A combination of courses and related activities organized for the attainment of broad educational objectives as described by the

Program

institution.

Programs requiring at least 2 years but less than 4 years of full-time equivalent college level work, including associate's degrees

Programs of at least 2 years

and programs that can be completed in at least 1,800 but less than 3,600 clock hours to obtain a degree, diploma, certificate,

but less than 4 years

or other recognized postsecondary credential.

Programs designed to be completed in at least 8 semesters or 12 quarters to obtain a degree, diploma, or other recognized

postsecondary credential. Includes programs resulting in all bachelor's degrees and other baccalaureate level or equivalent

Programs of at least 4 years

degrees, as well as 5-year cooperative programs, and those programs in which the normal 4 years of work are designed to be completed in 3 years.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 29/30

Programs requiring less than 2 years of full-time equivalent college level work (4 semesters or 6 quarters) or less than 1,800 Programs of less than 2 years

clock hours to obtain a degree, diploma, certificate, or other recognized postsecondary credential.

Residency-based scholarship programs for high school graduates at selected postsecondary institutions. Programs may have Promise Program

additional requirements beyond residency and can be either a first-dollar or last-dollar benefit.

An educational institution whose programs and activities are operated by publicly elected or appointed school officials and Public institution

which is supported primarily by public funds.

A calendar system in which the academic year consists of 3 sessions called quarters of about 12 weeks each. The range may Quarter (calendar system)

be from 10 to 15 weeks as defined by the institution. There may be an additional quarter in the summer.

A recognized postsecondary credential includes any credential that is recognized by the institution’s appropriate governing body

and received after completion of an academic program or that is awarded in recognition of an individual's attainment of Recognized postsecondary

measurable technical or industry/occupational skills necessary to obtain employment or advance within an industry/occupation. credential

These technical or industry/occupational skills generally are based on standards developed or endorsed by employers or

industry associations.

A calendar system that consists of two sessions called semesters during the academic year with about 15 weeks for each

semester of instruction. There may be an additional summer session. Note: the standard term length range is defined by the Semester (calendar system)

Office of Postsecondary Education. More information can be found at: https://ifap.ed.gov/electronic-

announcements/110519RevisionGuidelinesApplicableStandardTerms

A membership group of over 1,700 institutions that functions to expand and improve voluntary postsecondary opportunities for Servicemembers Opportunity

servicemembers worldwide. It is funded by the Department of Defense through a contract with the American Association of Colleges

State Colleges and Universities (AASCU).

A facility housing an organized collection of printed, microform, and audiovisual materials, and (a) is jointly administered by Shared library more than one educational institution, or (b) whose funds or operating expenditures have been received from more than one

educational institution. The location of the facility is not a determining factor.

Standard term For Title IV purposes, a standard term is a semester, quarter, or trimester

Arrangement by which a student completes part of the college program studying in another country. Can be at a campus abroad Study abroad

or through a cooperative agreement with some other U.S. college or an institution of another country.

An organization of two or more institutions of higher education under the control or supervision of a common administrative

governing body. Governing bodies generally have the power to act in their own name, to hire and fire personnel, enter into System

contracts, etc. A coordinating body without these powers or a section of a state agency usually would not be considered a

system office.

A program designed to prepare students to meet the requirements for certification as teachers in elementary, middle/junior high, Teacher certification program

and secondary schools.

An institution that has a written agreement with the Secretary of Education that allows the institution to participate in any of the

Title IV federal student financial assistance programs (other than the Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnerships or LEAP, Title IV institution

formerly State Student Incentive Grant or SSIG and the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership or NEISP

programs).

Trimester (calendar system) An academic year consisting of 3 terms of about 15 weeks each.

A student who is taking courses at the baccalaureate or below the baccalaureate level. These students may or may not be Undergraduate student

enrolled in undergraduate programs.

The official identifier for doing business with the U.S. Government. Replaces the DUNs number starting in April of 2022. For

more information, please visit the GSA page at https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/organization/federal-acquisition-service/office-of-Unique Entity Identifier (UEI)

systems-management/integrated-award-environment-iae/iae-systems-information-kit/unique-entity-identifier-update.



A program that allows students to take a complete course of study and attend classes only on weekends or only in the Weekend/evening college

evenings.

A voluntary program through which participating public and private institutions can provide veterans and eligible beneficiaries

additional institutional aid to cover the costs of tuition and fees at their institutions. The Yellow Ribbon Program is a Yellow Ribbon Program

supplementary program to the Post 9/11 GI Bill coverage of in-state tuition and fees. The Department of Veterans Affairs

matches the institutional aid provided beyond the in-state tuition and fees, but up to a certain limit each year.



https://surveys.nces.ed.gov/ipeds/public/survey-materials/forms?surveyid=12&instructionid=30108&formid=93 30/30





