Does your institution offer institutionally-controlled housing (on-campus and/or off-campus)? If you answer Yes to this question, you will be expected to specify a housing capacity, and to report a housing charge or a combined food and housing charge.

Specify housing capacity for academic year 2024-25

Are all full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking students required to live on campus or in institutionally controlled housing? This is only a screening question, and your response does not show up on College Navigator.

Does your institution charge different tuition rates for in-district, in-state, or out-of-state students? If you answer Yes to this question, you will be expected to report different tuition amounts for in-district, in-state, and out-of-state students (as applicable).

Do you offer food or meal plans to your students?

Does your institution charge an application fee?

For institutions that charge an application fee, can the application fee be waived for applicants that demonstrate financial need?

Indicate whether or not your institution participates in a Promise program.

Indicate whether or not any of the following alternative tuition plans are offered by your institution.

For the purposes of awarding institutional financial aid, does your institution require asset information from students who qualify for the exemption from asset reporting on the FAFSA form?

For the purpose of awarding institutional financial aid, does your institution require additional financial information separate from the FAFSA form?

If the institution charges an application fee, indicate the amount.

Student Charges: Part B - Cost of attendance for full-time, first-time undergraduate students

Student Charges: Part C - Tuition and Required Fees by Level (Undergraduate and Graduate [not including Doctor's-Professional practice])

Student Charges: Part D - Tuition and Required Fees by Level (Selected Doctor's-Professional Practice)

What are the typical housing charges for a student for the full academic year 2024-25?

In the fields below, report the number of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students enrolled in Fall 2023.

In the fields below, report the number of full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students enrolled in Fall 2023 paying the lower of in-state or in-district tuition rate. 

Enter Information about full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students paying the lower of in-state or in-district tuition rate who were awarded grant or scholarship aid from the following sources: the federal government, state/local government, or the institution

Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students paying the lower of in-state or in-district tuition rate awarded any Title IV federal student aid.

Average net price calculation for full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students paying the lower of in-state or in-district tuition rate awarded grant or scholarship aid from the federal government, state/local government, or the institution

Net Price Calculation for Full-time, first-time degree/certificate-seeking undergraduate students awarded any Title IV federal student aid.


This survey component was prepared by:

Name:

Email:

How many staff from your institution only were involved in the data collection and reporting process of this survey component?

How many hours did you and others from your institution only spend on each of the steps below when responding to this survey component?

Exclude the hours spent collecting data for state and other reporting purposes.

Cost I Component Summary
